Microsoft made Bill Gates the world's richest man by putting its operating system in every personal computer and then by trying to ensure there was a PC in just about every home, certainly in the developed world. Then came the Internet, smartphones, the world of apps, and Microsoft seemed to many lost. So what to do with a massive company that needed a new direction? That was the challenge before Satya Nadella when he took over the company in February of 2014. I'd say he's done pretty well. The stock hit its highest-ever price just last month, nearly doubling the company's worth to over $500 billion. Nadella, a soft-spoken engineer and an Indian immigrant, faced the uphill battle of changing a company that was still under Bill Gates' enormous shadow. So what did he do? He hit "refresh." That is also the name of his terrific new book. Satya Nadella, pleasure to have you on. 
Thank you so much for having me, Fareed.
You say that qualities like empathy, concern, mindfulness are going to be at the heart of Microsoft winning the next wave of technology battles and, you know, kind of, becoming -- or maintaining its role as a technology giant. It's a strange thing for the CEO of a technology company to do. So I want to start by having you explain personally how you got to this point of understanding it. And tell me about your mother, who was not a technology person, not an engineer, not even an economist like your dad was, but she was a scholar of Sanskrit and had a very different outlook on life than one thinks of when one thinks of the Indian driving, achievement-oriented parent?
I have learned the power of empathy. It is not some innate capability that I had, but it is life's experiences, whether it was my mother -- quite frankly, now I see more clearly her influence -- or the birth of my son. In the case of my mother, you know, my dad was this, as you said, was an economist who was in love with ideas. Every...
Ironically a Marxist economist?
A Marxist economist. And he would be always in love with ideas. He had intellectual curiosity and ambition. My mom, who herself was an academic, was more about "Stay calm; absorb what is happening; be mindful." In fact, she would always ask me, "Are you happy?" And it was not a banal question. It was like, are you truly able to take it all in? And, quite honestly, growing up sometimes I would even get irritated, and only now I realize, as I grow each year, that the lessons she tried to teach me throughout are the more enduring ones. And so her influence has been tremendous. 
I mean, it's an important point, again, from an immigrant background, because I think of my father, who was a very driven, self -- self-made man. I think if you had asked him "Are you happy," he wouldn't have understood the question. 
Right.
You know, the point of life was not personal happiness. The point was achievement, success, right? 
That's right. And sometimes that's how I interpreted it -- like, how can I be happy? I have to be impatient; I have to go on to the next thing. Her thing, I think, was to remind me that you don't do your best work if you're waiting for your next thing. You've got to do your work today and enjoy it, and if you don't enjoy it or have meaning -- which came much later, in fact, from another very interesting source, Doug Burgum, who is the governor of North Dakota now, once looked at me and said at work, saying, "You know, you are going to spend more time at Microsoft than with your children, and so you better figure out a way for this work to have more meaning." That was one of the other moments in -- you know, it was perhaps in my mid-30s -- and I realized, "What is he saying?" But it struck me as the most, best advice that I've gotten.
You had another occasion to be shocked into -- into finding empathy with the birth of your son. Explain what happened. 
You know, I was 29 years old. Anu and I were only children of our parents and so this was our first son and we were all very excited, the entire family was. And even a few hours before Zain was born, we were mostly concerned about is the nursery going to be ready or how is Anu going to go back to her job as an architect. And those were our concerns. And then of course life changed that night. And the first...
And he's born -- explain what happened. 
He was in utero asphyxiation and he was born with severe cerebral palsy and he's quadriplegic. Today he's 21 years old. The first couple of years, Fareed, I must say, I struggled. I struggled mostly because I felt something happened to my plan, my ideal -- a lot of questioning "Why me, why us?" whereas Anu, right off the bat, was all about, look, oh, driving Zain from therapy to therapy and making sure he got the best shot, the best chance -- and, without schooling me in particular, I got schooled. Because I saw her and her approach and then I realized that nothing happened to me; Zain was the one suffering and it was my responsibility as a father to see that through his eyes and do the best I can. And that, I think, when I look back, was probably one of those moments of "hit refresh" that really helped shape who I am, at work, even. And it's not that, you know, that was the only incident, but I think that's where I'm now a firm believer that your life's experience is what's going to help you develop increasing levels of empathy for more people. And that's what's going to make you a good leader, a good colleague, and a good innovator. 
I'll be back in just a moment with much more of my interview with Satya Nadella. He's bullish on artificial intelligence and the like, but I asked him what he would say to the millions of people around the world who worry that machines will soon put them all out of work. Don't forget, if you miss a show, go to cnn.com/fareed for a link to my iTunes podcast. Back now with more of my interview with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, the author of a new book, "Hit Refresh." So you have transformed Microsoft, and the conventional wisdom would be you took a company, extraordinary technology giant, but that was foundering, had lost its way, had missed the Web, had missed a lot of the -- you know, mobile, things like that. Did you have to incentivize compensation? Did you have to give a lot of speeches? How did you actually make -- how do you turn a ship around? 
I think it's all the levers, right? I mean, leadership is one of those things where there's multiple things that you've got to do and get them right and continuously cultivate. One of the first things I worked very hard on is, when I joined the company in 1992, we used to talk about our mission is to put a PC in every home on every desk. It was clear. It was so tangible. And by even the end of that decade, at least in the developed world, we more or less achieved that objective. And then, you know, we said, oh, what next? So that's when I said, OK, we've got to go back and have a sense of purpose and mission as a company. Because, in order for us -- we can't be looking with envy to what the competitor is doing for inspiration. We have to truly say, "What is it that Microsoft can uniquely contribute in a competitive marketplace? And so I went all the way back to the first product of the company, which was Paul and Bill creating the BASIC interpretor for the Altair. And right there in the story of our birth is what -- who we are at our core, which is we create technology so that others can create more technology. We are a toolmaker, a platform provider. That's who Microsoft is. We're not just a -- we're not a consumer Internet company, but we are a platform company and a tool maker. And so I said, OK, let's now capture that in words, you know, which is we talk about our mission is empowering people and organizations all over the planet to achieve more. And each one of those words is key to us.
If there's so much data out there and so much computing power that can analyze it, there are some dangers, right? I mean, we've seen it in the last election, the ability to collect data which tells you how people are leaning in terms of their votes, what they might be influenced by, how you could suppress their vote, how you could encourage their vote. Obviously this is done with retail customers all the time, in terms of what choices are provided to them in terms of what they buy and sell. I can think of ways you could manipulate the stock market by putting fake news in front of people that causes a stock to move down and then somebody's profiting off that. This seems to me a brave new world. 
It is a brave new world. And I think, as I've always thought about this, is the key for us is let us, like with any new technology, when the telegraph came, wire fraud, and we had to deal with it. So the question is how do we take the good? To give you an example, A.I. is one of the big benefits one gets if you have data. Your ability to reason over data gives you artificial intelligence. To put it in tangible terms, in fact, one of the colleagues of mine whom I worked with when I first joined the company who is still there, Angela Mills, was recounting this story. We launched a new app called "Seeing AI," which is available in the app store. What it does is it takes some of the cutting-edge work from computer vision, makes it available for someone with visual impairment to be able to see. And Angela has visual impairment. So for the first time, she was telling me, she can go into our cafeteria, read the menu, order the right food, walk into the right conference room knowing that it's the place where her meeting is, fully participate, in some sense, at Microsoft, because of AI. The same thing happened when we put learning tools into Word. People with dyslexia now can start to improve their reading because of the assistance of AI. So I believe we should first grab onto all of these opportunities to enhance the human experience with AI, while being very clear-eyed about all of the implications, whether it's automation that leads to jobs displacement; whether it's cyber threats. And these are all going to require not only companies like ours doing their best work, taking a principled stance in terms of how we design things, and ultimately even governments, in the legislative process, looking at how do we make sure that the unintended consequences of new technology are not causing us harm?
A final question: When you think about AI, supercomputing, all these extraordinary technologies, I think now people, at the back of their minds, think, "This all sounds great, but what will I do?" What do you say to people who look at AI and, you know, the driverless car and say, "Yeah, but 3 million Americans, mostly without college degrees, drive a car, bus or truck for a living and this wonderful technology might be great for the economy in some abstract sense but is going to put 3 million people out of work?"
Yeah, I mean, I think it's a real issue. So here's multiple things. One is, on the practical side, I would say let's not fall complete victim to this "lump of labor" fallacy. 
"Lump of labor" fallacy being there's actually lots of new work and new jobs and new industries that will spring up?
That's right. That's one. So then you know, having said it abstractly, then let's even go to work on, in fact, disproving the "lump of labor" fallacy, which is to say people-on- people jobs. Can we have an economy where there is a lot of surplus being created by automation create, in fact, great wage support for people-on-people jobs? In fact...
Like what? Give me an example. 
Health -- I mean, elder care. And, in fact, in my own case, if I look at -- I would say what are all the services that could be available for some children with disabilities that not just someone like me can afford but broadly can be afforded? So I think that there is a role -- in fact, in a world where there's a lot of artificial intelligence, what's going to be scarce is real intelligence, or human intelligence, the innate qualities we have. How do we create markets for them, I think, would be one of the more interesting challenges in the future. 
So in a sense, the challenge is for human beings to figure out how to be more human?
That's correct.
Satya Nadella, pleasure to have you on. 
Thank you so much, Fareed.
Welcome and good morning to everyone.  It’s fantastic to be back here in New York.  I was here last week, and I shared how we at Microsoft are empowering the creators of the world to unlock their ingenuity with new computers and computing experiences. And that’s pretty core to Microsoft.  That’s something that we care very deeply.  And so today, we want to build on that.  It’s core to our mission of empowering every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. And today, picking up on that theme of empowerment, we want to talk about productivity, collaboration and that art form of teams. In a world where we have an abundance of data, information, compute power, what is scarce is human attention and time. And this paradox is what drives our ambition around reinventing productivity and business process. As we think about productivity, we think about people and teams of people and what they can achieve and accomplish together. The art of how teams work together is going to be central to the news today. In some way, every individual is different, and so is the case with every team.  Teamwork and collaboration is an art.  In fact, observing musicians at athletes teaches us a lot about this art form.  Both how they work as a team, and also the tools, the processes they use to be effective. Consider music.  A symphony works as one, the conductor, the strings, the horns, the percussion, bound together by one score, but each with their own instrument, their own tool, the whole greater than the parts.  This is one team. A jazz ensemble works differently.  The score is just a mere hint of what’s possible.  As individual instruments come to the forefront, lead and then rejoin the chorus. In sports, the collaboration needed to create the swing of a boat in a crew race, the oars working in perfect unison, propelling the boat over water. And in my favorite sport, cricket, I’ve always admired how an entire team made up of specialists in every position come together, perform brilliantly individually, but yet have one coordinated set of strategies and tactics. For any coach, for any conductor, for any player, the art of finding that right process, that right tool, set of tools that drive the collaboration that then leads to success is what’s at the core. There is no one blueprint, there is no one universal tool for it.  And the same is true for business.  How to assemble a high-performance team and a great team and setting them up for success is one of the central pursuits for any organization. No two teams are the same, no two projects are the same.  There is no universal tool for teams, but rather a universal toolkit that we call Office 365. Empowering teams is more than simply solving any logistical challenge of bringing people to the same place. We think about more challenging aspects of teams and teamwork.  How do you bring coherence around ideas, around goals, actions, values that drive teams? And then, of course, the technology that truly empowers this teamwork. Office 365 empowers individual teams and entire organizations with the broadest platform and toolkit for creation, communications and collaboration in the market. For me, Office 365 and its use is, in fact, central to how Microsoft works and even our culture.  I use email every day as a way to communicate with people outside the organization and everyone inside the organization.  I use Groups, Outlook Groups, to be able to distribute information and share information. Yammer is a bulletin board for the entire company.  In fact, I go there every morning to be able to get a sense, a pulse for what’s happening with the entire company. Skype is where real-time, instant communications happen.  If I want to get ahold of someone, I either call them or message them in Skype for Business. But what underpins all of these tools is a very powerful platform, a common identity, a common profile across all of these tools powered by Azure Active Directory, a common group construct, this cross-application membership.  So important as you move between tools to have that group context move with you. Our Graph that connects all your content artifacts that you create and all the people and really enables discovery, search and most importantly, a third-party extensibility and an ecosystem. AI that helps you reason over all of your Office 365 data and information and helps you focus your attention on things that matter the most. And compliance — providing that control, security and privacy for every business in a complex world, in a world where you have changing regulation and changing needs around digital sovereignty. That’s what makes Office 365 a powerful toolkit as well as a platform.  That’s the approach we’re taking. And today, we’re adding a new tool and an experience to Office 365:  Microsoft Teams, a chat-based workspace. It’s where people can come together in a digital forum to have casual conversations, work on content, create work plans, integrated all within one unified experience. Designed to facilitate real-time conversations and collaboration, while maintaining and building up that institutional knowledge of a team. Just like Outlook brought together email, contacts, calendar, into this one magical user experience scaffolding that changed how we work, Microsoft Teams will bring together chat, meetings, notes, Office, Planner, Power BI and a host of other ecosystem-developed extensions and applications to help teams get work done. This is an experience that truly empowers that art form of how teams work and teams drive success. And to tell you more about Microsoft Teams, I wanted to welcome Kirk Koenigsbauer to really give you an in-depth view of Microsoft Teams and how we envision Microsoft Teams as a key member of the Office 365 platform to transform the art of teams. Thank you all very much.  Kirk?
Thank you, Satya. Good morning, everybody.  Thanks, Satya, it’s really, really terrific to be here to talk about Microsoft Teams, the new chat-based workspace in Office 365. Teams is an entirely new experience.  It brings together people, conversations and content, along with the tools that teams need so they can easily collaborate to achieve more. It’s naturally and thoughtfully integrated with the familiar Office applications, built from the ground up on Office 365, and it’s here for customers today. At Microsoft, we are deeply committed to the ambition of reinventing productivity for the cloud and mobile world, and ultimately helping people and organizations achieve more through digital transformation. We see both tremendous change and tremendous opportunity in how people and teams get work done. There’s a movement towards flexibility and transparency and inclusivity in how decisions are made. Teams are now more agile and organizations more flat, keep communications and information flowing. And people work from everywhere across multiple devices, even their physical workspace is morphing and changing. With Microsoft Teams, we see an opportunity to create a more open, a more fluid, a more digital environment, one with the capabilities and the experiences of teams at its heart. You can really think of Microsoft Teams as a digital transformation of an open-office-space environment, one that fosters easy connection and conversation to help people build relationships, one that makes work visible, integrated and accessible across the team so that everyone can stay in the know. And one that helps build a team culture that is both fun and inclusive so everyone has a voice. Microsoft Teams delivers on four core promises to create a digital workspace:  chat for today’s teams, a hub for teamwork, customization options, and the security that teams trust. Now, over the next few minutes, I’m going to walk you through each of these and the experience that we’ll have at general availability. First and foremost, we are providing a modern conversation experience for today’s teams.  Teams will support not only persistent, but threaded, chat to keep everyone engaged.  Team conversations are, by default, visible to the entire team, but of course there is the ability for private, one-on-one type discussion. Skype is deeply integrated so teams can participate in voice and video conferences.  And the experience itself is fun, and this really, really matters to teams, with emojis, stickers, GIFs, custom memes, people can add personality to their digital workspace and really make it feel like their own. Second, Microsoft Teams brings together the full breadth and depth of Office 365, providing a true hub for teamwork — Word, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint, OneNote, Planner, Delve, Power BI — they’re all built into Microsoft Teams so people have all the information and the tools that they need at their fingertips. Backed by the Microsoft Graph, intelligent services are surfaced through the experience to help with information relevancy, discovery and sharing of information. Teams is also built on Office 365 Groups.  Groups is our cross-application membership service that makes it easy for people to move naturally from one collaboration tool to another to preserve their sense of context and to make it easy to share information with others. Finally, Microsoft Teams is built for each of us, meeting accessibility standards so every team member can participate. Now, all teams are unique, so we’ve also invested deeply in ways for people to customize their workspace with rich extensibility and open APIs. For example, team members can create their own channels to organize their conversation. They can integrate their favorite cloud services with a feature called Tabs that provides quick access to frequently used content and information. Teams also shares the same connector model as Exchange, providing notifications and updates from third-party services like Twitter or GitHub directly within the team’s experience. Lastly, we’re supporting the Microsoft bot framework to bring intelligent first- and third-party services into your Teams environment. Finally, Teams also has the advanced security and the compliance capabilities that our Office 365 customers would expect.  Data is encrypted at rest and in transit, like all of our commercial services. We have a transparent operational model with no standing access to customer data. Microsoft Teams will, of course, support key compliance standards including EU Model Clauses, ISO 27001, HIPAA and more. And as customers would expect, Teams is served out of our hyper-scale, global network of datacenters.  It will be automatically provisioned within Office 365 and managed centrally just as any other Office 365 service. I hope that gives you a good, brief overview of Microsoft Teams.  What we’d like to do now is invite a person who is really super familiar with the product, obviously a big fan, to come up and demo.  Brad Sams, are you here somewhere? Just kidding, Brad. Fortunately, we have Mira Lane, an engineer from our product team who is going to give you a first look at Microsoft Teams.  Mira, come on up.
Hi, everyone.  So I have been living in Microsoft Teams for a while, and it is so nice to be able to finally share this broadly. I’m going to demo what’s in the product now, as well as a few things that you’ll see closer to GA. So let me draw your attention all the way to the left to what I refer to as the app bar.  This is where you get to your activities, your private chats, your team’s meetings and files. I’m going to start in the team section, and I’ll work my way around. So here you can see that I’ve got a team called the Graphic Design Institute selected. And we’re talking about a big art and media festival that we’re putting on. So a team is a group of people that are organized around a common goal.  They can be organizationally bound, they can be project teams, but the key here is that these are high-velocity and highly collaborative in nature. Now, within a team, we have the idea of open conversation channel.  So anyone on the team can jump in and join the conversation.  Channels that have activity go bold, as you can see, with grants and the social media channel.  And whenever there’s activity that’s directed at me, you’ll see a red badge count next to that channel. Now, I can be a member of multiple teams, because we expect that in a large organization.  I’m going to jump around between project team to project team. So we’ve made it really easy to be able to dive into another team.  Right here on the left rail, I can dive in, do my work, and then jump back to the other team I’m working on without having to switch out of my UI. So let’s dive into the art and media festival channel and take a look at the team chat experience. So the first thing you might notice is, yes, this is a threaded chat experience.  And that means it keeps topics grouped together.  Makes it easy for me to scan the conversation stream and also choose which conversations I want to be a member of. Now, the first message over here is directed explicitly at me.  And when that happens, we place a red flag right next to the message here.  So, again, just scanning through the conversation stream, it’s easy to pick out the messages that are targeted directly at you. Messages can also have titles, like you can see in the city council update, and it’s really easy to embed objects, like images in the emerging artists thread here, and you can embed files.  It’s also really easy to embed GIFs, I love this one, and stickers and emojis as well. Now, I can also pipe in third-party experiences and connectors into my channel. So here I have a Twitter connector wired up.  And, basically, we’ve set this to work — whenever there’s an update to the school of fine art where they’re tweeting about something related to our festival, it pushes a message into the conversation stream. And because we have threads, we can have a conversation around this object. I can also bring in bots like Polly.  Polly is one of the most popular collaboration bots out there.  And we’re using Polly to help us decide, hey, where should we take the artists after the reception?  Let’s take a poll on the team. So some of the options are Art of the Table, Tilt, Backhoe, Tin Table, and Polly will go and take this object, insert into the stream, and then everyone gets a chance to vote. So everyone’s had a chance to vote, and it look like Art of the Table, one of my favorite restaurants, is the winner.  And it looks like Tucker is really excited as well.  Tucker’s added a meme into the conversation.  And I’ll show you how he created that using the product in just a minute. It’s also easy to add important messages.  And we’re leveraging the concept of red bang in this message.  So whenever that happens, the channel on the left rail will get a little red exclamation mark next to it letting you know that there’s something important here to come and take a look at. So let me go ahead and send a few messages.  So I could easily like this message.  I’ll go and respond to this.  But you know what?  Let me actually call someone’s attention. So I’ll start with the at symbol.  I’m going to look for Tucker.  He’s one of my main guys.  So we have a pop-up that pulls in the users or the people that I tend to interact with the most.  So I’ll grab Tucker from in here.  And I’ll say, “Hey, I’m about to go and meet the artists.  I’ll let you know how it goes.” All right.  So I’ll send that.  Now, Tucker will get a notification in his activity bell all the way in the app bar letting him know that I’ve mentioned him and that he has a message to come and take a look at. So let’s go on the road, let me take my mobile app with me.  It’s a great way for me to stay on top of what’s happening with my team.  We have mobile apps across all the platforms — Windows Phone, IOS, Android — and it’s a great companion app. So across the bottom, you’ll see that familiar app bar.  I have my alerts, I have my private chats and my teams. Now, let me dive back into that art and media festival channel that I was just looking at.  You can see that message I just posted and that conversation stream that I was just showing you guys. So let me go ahead and send a message here.  You know, met with the artists, let’s brainstorm later.  OK. All right, so I’ll send that off to Tucker.  And let’s go back to my demo box, actually. So now I’m back at the office and I want to go heads down, I want to get some work done.  Actually, you see that message I just sent.  And so I want to draw your attention to the top of the channel. And this is the tabbed framework that Kirk was mentioning.  And so at the top of every channel is a place that teams can go in to pin services and tools that they access frequently.  And so it’s in context to the channel and the conversation that you’re having. We store an enormous amount of knowledge in our heads.  There’s a lot of links to tools and sites that we use frequently, a lot of services.  And we wanted to provide a way for teams to take that collective knowledge, unload that, and place that in a place that everyone can access. So when a team is created, we provision SharePoint automatically behind the scenes.  And there’s a folder representing every channel.  So that I have all of my files at my fingertips, I don’t have to go hunting around for the URLs of the files or worry if I have the latest. I can go and I can choose one of these files and open it up in the client, like Microsoft Word, or I can actually click on it and just look at it right here in Microsoft Teams. And you’ll notice that that conversation thread that was associated with the file, that’s brought over here to the right.  And I can continue the discussion right here. Now, similarly, we’ve done the same type of thing with notes.  So we’re embedding OneNote right into the experience.  Because as you look at a conversation stream, it’s often scrolling out of view, it’s ephemeral in nature, and we thought it would be a great way to have a place to store long-term knowledge, stuff that’s more evergreen in nature. And so what we’re doing here is I’ve got my list of workshops, this is a draft list.  We’re editing it, we’re keeping it up to date, and it’s really nice to have this right here at my fingertips and not have to chase it down in a message somewhere. I’ve also pinned our budget up here so we’re always working off of the latest numbers. And then I have our Power BI dashboard right here, so we’re looking at our analytics on Twitter.  And I can interact with it right in this space. Of course I can always go into Power BI directly and do it from there, but it’s really nice to have this dashboard right here because oftentimes these types of tools are in the hands of a few on the team.  And what we wanted to do is be able to democratize that knowledge and share it so that everyone is working smarter together. Now, for the art and media festival, there’s a lot of tasks that we’re tracking.  And so we’ve integrated Planner into the experience as well.  So I can see all the tasks that we’re looking at.  I can go in, I can make an edit, I can change something here.  Let’s change the due date.  Let’s move that out a little bit. And then any updates I make are automatically updated and the team can see it right away.  So there’s no lag right there. So you can see how this starts to bring in all of the Office 365 services into a really cohesive experience.  And so this top bar, the Tabs, they’re not just for Microsoft services.  There’s also a way to plug in third parties into our Tabs framework. And so if I click on Zendesk here, these are all the service tickets that are associated with our event website.  I can look through it and check if there’s any big issues that I need to look at, but it looks like everything’s OK. So this is a really nice way for me to just unload my brain, get access to all the tools I tend to use in one place. All right, so with all of this activity happening, how do I stay on top of what’s going on with the team?  And so that’s where you go into the activity bell up here in the app bar.  This is where you go to see any mentions that are directed specifically at you, any replies to threads that you’re on.  You can also see all the conversations that are happening in all the channels that you’re tracking. And so think of this as your inbox.  This is how I start my morning. While I’m over here, let’s go into the chat experience.  So, first, let me talk about bots.  And I’m going to talk about two bots.  The first one is called TBot.  TBot is our intelligent help system bot.  And what it does is it sits on top of our help system and it helps you answer questions about using the product.  For example, how do I post a GIF?  And just like I showed you, it shows you how to get into that smiley face and pick one of those. I can also type in something like, “How do I create a channel?”  And then TBot will go in and surface up any content that’s related in our help system to the question I’ve asked. Now, you can have two interfaces into a bot.  You can have this conversational interface or you can have a browse interface. So I can go into the tabs along the top and have access to our help system.  I can look at our videos if I choose.  And it’s really nice to be able to go in through a search interface and also browse. Now, the second bot I want to show you is one I really like.  It’s called WhoBot.  WhoBot sits on top of the Microsoft Graph and it answers questions about people. So I’ll scroll up a little bit, and I have a question here that says:  Hey, who is Ben Walters?  It’s someone I’ve been working with; I want to know a little bit more about him.  And so WhoBot surfaces up his manager, recent files he’s been working on, collaborators. But I can also ask questions about subject matter experts like who knows about ticket sales?  And it surfaces up people that are talking about this topic.  The WhoBot sits on top of our graph, it pulls out things like, hey, Barbie’s talked about ticket sales 14 times, she’s been mentioned four times, and it pulls out a set of people that are related to this query. So this is something that’s really exciting, there’s a lot of intelligence here.  Because it’s built on Office 365, we have a lot of knowledge in this system that we can leverage to build this bot out. All right, so let me talk to a real person.  Let’s go and talk to Tucker.  So, again, in our conversation, I have the ability to have a space between us.  I can look at the files that we have in common, the ones we’ve shared, the notes that we have. I can also look up Tucker’s organization and we’re leveraging Active Directory to pull out identity and org info.But let me go back to the conversation for a second.  Tucker’s mentioned, hey, a few of us are brainstorming in the future idea channel, hop on when you’re free.  All right, got it, be there in a second. All right, so what Tucker’s referring to is the idea of having an open meeting.  And so in this future ideas channel, what you’ll notice is there’s a video icon right next to it.  And that means there’s an open meeting happening right now. So similar to how you would see a set of people huddling around a desk in an open office space, this is the digital equivalent. So these guys have been talking for a little while, looks like a while.  I can see who’s in the conversation, and I can choose to join that conversation. And so this is a really low-friction way of going face to face, jumping in a meeting, they could be ad hoc, they could be scheduled.  Hey, guys, how’s it going?  I can’t wait to brainstorm with you guys. And we’re leveraging Skype for video and calling.  All right, so I think I’ll stop the demo right there and I’ll hand it back to Kirk.  Thank you very much.
Nice job.  Really nice.  Thanks, Mira. Next, I want to share a few specifics on the availability and the roadmap that we’ve got coming. Starting today, Microsoft Teams is available as a customer preview in 181 countries, localized in 18 different languages. We plan to include Microsoft Teams in all of our Office 365 Enterprise and Small Business Suite offerings. As we announced last week, Office 365 now has 85 million monthly active users.  So we see tremendous opportunity here for our customers. In terms of general availability, we’re planning for the first quarter of calendar year 2017. Today, I’m also excited to announce that we are opening up our developer preview program broadly.  So ISVs and partners can extend Microsoft Teams.  We’ll have integrations with over 150 partners at GA, including early partner Zendesk, Asana, Hootsuite and Intercom. Out of the gate, teams will ship with over 70 different connectors and 85 bots. This is a first step to providing the customizations users want and for partners to be able to further build on the Office 365 platform. Now, we’re also seeing a ton of enthusiasm from customers who have been a part of our early private preview program.  These customers have been providing valuable feedback throughout the development process and are enthusiastic about what they’re seeing.  So let’s take a quick look. All right, great.  To talk about the usage of Microsoft Teams, I’d like to invite Andrew Wilson from Accenture, Matthew Cochran from Hendrick Motorsports and Russell Cochran — no relation — from Alaska Airlines to come on up and talk to us a little bit about your experiences.  Come on up, guys.
Good morning.  All right, Andrew, why don’t we start with you?
Happy to.  Teams is going to be huge.
It’s going to be big.  So you are CIO of a company that has over 400,000 consultants globally, a huge population of millennial workers.  Talk to me a little bit about how Microsoft Teams plays in your collaboration portfolio.
I think it’s going to play a very big part.  The modern workplace, teams is the way work gets done these days.  And in Accenture, we have hundreds of thousands of people.  They’re all in high-performance teams. And those teams are already very collaborative.  We do 250 million minutes of audio a month on Skype; we’re well over 100,000 on Windows 10 already; in fact, we’re approaching 700 terabytes in OneDrive. And O365 powers the digital worker.  And, yet, the enterprise needs persistent chat.  And I think that Teams is going to be a digital cockpit at the heart of 365, nicely secure, nicely integrated with things the teams are already familiar with, but now doing things together persistently in real time in a way that we’ve been trying to do with email and old-fashioned stuff, and we’re just overusing it.  We’re overwhelmed with email and productivity is down.  We can use this to increase productivity and creativity. And it’s that cockpit which I think is going to change the team experience.  Teams that are both local, working together in agile huddle, but also teams that are remote.  Our pilot has got people involved who are in Manila in the Philippines, connecting with people here in North America.  It’s a nice global enabler as well.
Got it.  And as you think about this digital cockpit — that’s a great phrase — which teams do you think will adopt Microsoft Teams fastest in your organization?
We’ve given it to my leadership team, to ad agency people, to teams who are already behaving in a persistent manner. I think it’s working where teams like to have some fun, and the modern enterprise can’t be all stodgy and old-fashioned. I myself love the cats, I love the Star Trek and I love the cartoons where you can plug in your own comments.  This was the most viral feature on day one in my leadership team. I could write a long email to a leader giving them feedback, or I could send a GIF and it communicates beautifully. So it’s created humor, it’s created greater authenticity at work and it’s creating a glue.  And our workforce is already two-thirds millennial.  So they have been behaving like this in the consumer space.  But what this does is provide enterprise security, enterprise foundation and that nice integration with the things we’ve already invested in.
Great.  Great.  Matthew, maybe shifting to you a little bit.  At Hendrick, you are in an incredibly challenging environment in terms of the way your teams work.  You’re on the track, it’s loud, it’s noisy, literally every single second counts. Could you tell us a little bit about how Microsoft Teams fits into that environment?
Yeah, absolutely.  You know, for us it really starts at the top with our owner, Rick Hendrick, who has really a top-down mandate for the entire organization, no matter what department that you work in. And we’ve got a common goal, a common mission, and that’s to win races and to win championships. And so one of the ways that we do that is, we always ask ourselves constantly:  Is the product that I’m working on — in my case new technology, right — is it going to affect the performance in a positive way of the race cars on the track? And certainly, Microsoft Teams fits that bill for us.  As you alluded to, the track itself is a very noisy environment.  It’s not the most hospitable place for IT to work.  You have a lot of challenges with connectivity and power issues; we’re often running on generators and things of that nature, especially during the actual event itself. So for the guys that’s communicating via chat mechanism, the persistence of Microsoft Teams is key, because if you happen to be down for even an instant, as a race engineer or a crew chief, you don’t want to miss that communication that very may well win you a race. And with the persistent chat functionality, they are able to rejoin a conversation.  At that point, they can see anything that’s transpired while they were away. You know, for us, we started out with a tight pilot inside of IT.  We quickly grew it to race engineers, aerodynamic engineers, mechanical engineers across our organization.  And it really has snowballed.  And as I mentioned in the video, you know, really become viral inside our organization to the point where I’m getting multiple requests a day to add teammates, to create new teams, and to really ease and minimize friction across our collaborative environment.
That’s really great to hear, particularly the viral adoption within your organization. So, agility matters, speed matters.  Talk a little bit about security and how that matters.
Well, certainly.  Security has always been paramount in any new technology that we’re looking at implementing.  You know, whereas I think a lot of companies are separated by their competition by either buildings, cities or even continents in a lot of ways. We, on the other hand, our competition is shoulder to shoulder with us on a weekly basis in the garage areas and at the track. So, certainly, we rely heavily on Microsoft tools, everything from BitLocker to at-rest encryption and encryption in motion for all of our data to maintain that competitive advantage. For our collaboration tools in general, we were definitely getting more of a push from our end-user community to apply more social means of collaborating, and very effective means that you just don’t really get with an email type of notification.  Right? So we wanted to make sure that we are able to give our end users the tools and the collaborative applications that they desire, but at the same time from an IT perspective, making sure that it is integrated with the entire Office 365 stack as well as the encryption and all of the tools that Microsoft puts forward.  It allows us to keep our IT safe.
That’s great to hear, thank you.  Russell?  You’re at Alaska Airlines.  You run collaboration and identity systems there.  Thank you, again, for coming and joining us. You all decided to start the Microsoft Teams pilot in customer service.  Can you tell us a little bit about why you did that and how that’s going?
Absolutely.  So customer service is central to what we do as an airline.  It’s our Alaska promise to our customers.  Oftentimes, our reservations center is the first touchpoint for customers, so we want to make sure they have a great experience right off the bat. And that means giving them the right set of tools to be able to service customers in the best possible fashion. So Microsoft Teams gives us a couple of very well-structured features:  persistent chat for keeping track of the conversation that may go on as people come on and off shift.  They can go back and get their history.  Being able to have searchable chat history or searchable anything, really.  They can just discover documents, anything like that.  Gives them the ability to share knowledge and go back and retrieve knowledge that’s already been maybe in the silo and get that back. It also gives us a single pane of glass for documents and manuals and everything that’s already been put into SharePoint.  It just is one single pane of glass that they can use.
Exposed through Microsoft Teams.
Exactly.
That’s great.  Like any airline, I’m sure things like weather can be challenging in terms of how you run your business, customer service.  As you think about all the different kinds of incidents that can impact the airline, how do you think Microsoft Teams will really help address managing those kinds of tough situations?
Yeah, so in the customer support, customer service roles, they’re pretty flexible.  We’ve got kind of dedicated teams for certain roles like international travel, code-sharing with our partners, cargo.  And being able to have the supervisors keep tabs on situations as they change allows them to allocate resources differently to react to changing environments.
That’s great.  That’s great.  Good.  Well, thank you all very, very much for taking a few minutes to share some of the stories about how you’re all using Microsoft Teams in your environment.  Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Good morning.  Good morning, everyone, and it’s great to be here this morning. I’m going to spend my time this morning talking about perhaps one of the most pressing issues of our time, of our industry, cybersecurity. In fact, if you look at the history of computing or history of all information technology, starting from when we started to store data, transmit data and communicate, we’ve always had attacks on trust.  With mail came mail fraud.  With the telegraph, radio and television came wire fraud.  And now with the Internet we have cybercrime. And each time we’ve been faced with this, we have come together collectively as individuals, companies, organizations and governments to respond, to use the very technology to be able to respond to the challenge.  And that’s what we’re doing with cybersecurity. And today, I want to talk about Microsoft’s contribution, Microsoft’s approach. When we start to talk about cybersecurity, I want to first start with Microsoft’s mission.  Our mission to empower every person and organization on the planet to achieve more is what drives all of our technology innovation agenda, how we interact with our customers, how we show up with our customers, how we partner with the broader ecosystem.  It drives everything that we do. And trust is at the core of this.  Because in the mission, the mission captures our optimism for the future, optimism for how digital technology can play a positive role in every walk of life and in every sector of the economy.  There isn’t any aspect of our life, how we entertain ourselves, how we do commerce, how we educate our boys and girls, there isn’t a part of the economy from retail to healthcare to energy that is not using digital technology today to drive innovation and transform itself.  So it’s become the core of not just tech industry but the core of every industry. But customers are not going to use this technology if they can’t trust it.  And that’s why trust for us is central to our mission of empowering every person and organization. And we’re taking a principled approach with strong commitments to make sure that our customers can trust digital technology that they use. We have four pillars to this. When it comes to privacy, we will ensure your data is private and is under your control. When it comes to compliance, we will manage your data in accordance with the law of the land. We will also be transparent about both the collection of data and the uses of data. And lastly, we will ensure that all your data is secure. These are the four strong commitments that we will make in everything we do, all our products, all of our services, how we work with our customers, both proactively and reactively.  It’s grounded in these four principles. And today, I want to talk about security and cybersecurity.  In fact, it’s been a year — even just 2015 has been a tough year around cybersecurity.  Just the top eight or so data breaches have led to 160 million data records being compromised. In fact, one of the biggest challenges that we all face is the time to detect an intrusion; it’s something like 229 days between when you have been intruded versus when you know and you can start to respond. The cost of all of this in terms of lost productivity and lost growth really adds up.  It’s estimated that it’s something like $3 trillion.  Now, in a global economy that is challenged for growth, this is really a huge issue for all of us collectively. So now the question is, what is Microsoft going to do about responding to this challenge, and what is our approach? But before I talk about our approach, I want to start by describing the changing environment that we have. There was a time when we could talk about our environment with a very strong perimeter around it, where we could talk about our data, our applications, our computing end points, all being secure within the four walls of our environment. But over the last two decades, we have taken advantage of a more connected world, a more connected economy.  We have extended our network to touch our customers directly.  They could be through business-to-consumer e-commerce or through business-to-business e-commerce.  We have things like customer relationship management where customers are directly electronically connected with us.  We have optimized our supply chains so that we can have inventory levels throughout the supply chain constantly updating because of the connectivity that we have between our systems. We’ve not stopped there.  In fact, in the last couple of years, we’ve increased the pace of this connectivity.  We’re increasingly looking to public cloud services for our infrastructure, be they infrastructure as service or platform as service.  We’re increasingly turning to SaaS applications for our mission-critical business applications of CRM, ERP. And given that pace of change — in fact, one of the other things that we’re also doing is we are incorporating devices that are owned by our employees inside of our network.  So we’re letting people bring their own phones, their own computing end devices into our environment. And, of course all this is set to even further explode with the Internet of Things, because computing is going to be ubiquitous.  General purpose sensors are going to be in every room, every conference room, even living room. And so therefore now we live in a world where the attacks can come from anywhere.  The attack vectors can come from anywhere.  The attackers themselves are a lot more sophisticated, a lot more organized. So it’s a perimeter-less world, it’s a world that is constantly evolving, it’s dynamic, and you’re under constant attack.  That’s the environment that we have to deal with. One of the things that drives us to the kinds of solutions that we are building and that we will talk about today is a pretty unique perspective we have in all of this.  We today run some of the biggest Internet services, both on the consumer side with things like Xbox Live, as well as on the business or the commercial side with services like Office 365 and Dynamics and Azure.  And that gives us a pretty unique perspective in what’s happening, a great sampling of what’s happening in terms of both the attack vectors and how one responds to them. For example, we update Windows a billion times a month.  A billion devices are upgraded each month for security patches, for compatibility, to make sure that that ecosystem remains vibrant. We run the world’s largest anti-malware, antivirus service as part of Windows. We also inspect over 200 million emails as part of the Office 365 service for malware.  We’re looking for these attachments that may have malware associated with them.  So we take them, we detonate them, we inspect them before we deliver them to the inboxes of people. The fact that we run this gamut of services spanning consumer and commercial, and it’s very, very key to think about those two aspects because all of you have services that reach consumers as well as business-to-business services, and so you need to be able to think of that intersection, and you need to be able to have a sampling of traffic that really helps you get visibility into both aspects of it. And we have something on the order of 300 billion authentications every month that we see, so identities of consumers and businesses that we see in our network. Now, all this unique perspective has helped us develop a very different security posture inside of Microsoft.  In fact, 14 years ago, Bill Gates wrote about Trustworthy Computing as a priority for Microsoft.  And we have made a tremendous amount of progress on it. But with this changing environment it’s no longer just about our code and the threat modeling and the testing, but it is in fact about the operational security posture that we have in this constantly evolving environment, this constantly under attack environment. So the operational security posture to me is where it all starts.  It’s like going to the gym every morning.  Every hour of the day you need to be prepared.  And so that means you have to exercise this operational security posture in a continuous basis. This framework of protect, detect and respond has been there with us for many years.  What is new is that posture. For example, what we protect no longer is just computing end points of applications.  It’s all of that.  It’s computing end points, it’s the applications, which may be inside your premise, it will be the cloud services that you’re using, it is all the sensors, the HVAC system and the datacenter infrastructure.  So everything from sensors to datacenter is part of your environment that you need to protect. When it comes to detection, it’s no longer, for example, waiting to detect a signature and then coming up with a response and then deploying the remediation.  We now have moved to much more of a behavioral approach where we can detect based on the behavior of the attack vector. And when it comes to response, this is perhaps the area that is going through the sea change in terms of how we respond.  We’re using the transformation of an as-a-service base.  Even with Windows, we think of Windows as a service so that we can ensure both compatibility and security of Windows end points continuously. Office 365 as a service means it’s no longer just about giving you the tools but it’s about actually ensuring security of your data, of your tenant in the service. And it’s not limited just to the services we run.  In fact, the knowledge we gain is something that we share broadly with the industry and with our customers, because it’s going to take us all to come together to combat this. This operational security posture has perhaps been the biggest sea change inside of Microsoft to get us to come up with new solutions, new technologies that in turn help us really secure your environment. So the approach that we are taking has three key elements to it. The first is building out a comprehensive platform for you to be able to run that loop from protection to detection to response. Second, we complement that with this intelligence fabric that we have, and this operational security posture that we have, as well as a set of proactive and reactive services that we will have in the field so that we can help secure your environment on a continuous basis. And lastly, it is about partnering broadly, partnering with the rest of the IT industry, because we know that we don’t live in isolation, you all have a heterogeneous environment, and we need to operate within it. When it comes to the platform, one of the things that I personally do is sit in security review meetings every month where we look at all the incidents.  In fact, every time there is an incident, when I call the CEO of the company that has had this issue, I ask two questions:  How can we help, and what can we learn?  Because that’s the posture that we need to take once you start with an operational security focus. And that has helped us ground ourselves in the real incidence, the real attack vectors, the mobility of those attack vectors, and then the responses we have come up with. So what we want to walk you through today is how we’ve built this platform to be resilient under attack. Accidental data loss, this is perhaps one of the biggest issues we have, especially with bring your own services and bring your own devices.  It’s unintended in many cases, but can be devastating.  So how do we help you get to a control plane that allows you to avoid accidental data loss? Phishing attacks, social engineering is perhaps one of the biggest sources of attack vectors, so how we deal with that. Malware continues to be a big issue.  It’s just that it’s getting much more sophisticated in terms of how malware shows up in your computing end points, in your email. Pass the hash, how do you take access to one account and access others? And, of course even the core hygiene, which we sometimes take for granted, is so important, because once you start with the operational security posture, you recognize that more often than not most of the issues have to deal with the lack of patching and the lack of strong credentials.   And it’s so important for us to not only improve the technology but the security posture you have around the basics. It is that security platform that we are building across all of our products, and I felt that it will be great for Julia White to come up onstage and give you a quick run of all of the capability in our platform.  Julia?
Thanks, Satya. Now, Satya spoke about the different types of security threats.  I’m going to show you how some of the built-in Microsoft technologies, working in partnership with the security ecosystem, can help address these threats and help you achieve this new security posture that Satya spoke about. Now, I’m going to first start talking about protection technology around identity theft, which is certainly a big area.  So today, users’ identities are being stolen and misused at an unprecedented level.  And the solution frankly is to move away from passwords completely.  But up until this point, you really only had the choice of smart cards or other similar type of technology.  But unfortunately, the user experience, the IT cost and complexity has been a barrier to broad adoption of this technology. Well, now with Windows 10 Passport we’ve addressed this issue by giving you smart card level of threat detection and capability and protection, but using the device as the first factor of authentication itself, making it very simple, simpler than the card, and the second can be biometrics, using Windows Hello.  And that can be fingerprint, facial or iris. Now, just to be clear, this is not just a front end to your password like other devices give you, this is actually a password replacement, so it’s a very big deal. Now, here I have my Surface Book and it’s set up with Windows Hello for facial recognition.  I’m going to step in front of it and it happens fast, so watch how quickly it authenticates me into the system using biometrics.  Just like that, incredibly simple user experience, and yet more secure than a traditional password. Now, Microsoft’s also working to enable this technology to be an industry standard.  We’re working with the FIDO Alliance, with support of other companies like AMEX and Intel, to be able to have all platforms from this type of technology in the future. Now, certainly beyond the hardware level of identity protection, you also need to secure and manage identity around your SaaS applications that we’re increasingly all using.  This is where Azure Active Directory comes into play.  It enables single sign-on to over 2,500 pre-integrated SaaS applications, as well as lets you integrate any of your existing applications as well.  It enables conditional access, so lets you preconfigure apps that require multifactor authentication, or you can determine it based on the user, the app type or even the device health.  So I’ll show you what that looks like. So I go in here, and I have my app portal.  And I see that I have a bunch of different SaaS apps I can use.  And I’m going to go into Salesforce here.  And when I do that, it’s set up for multifactor authentication, and so it’s going to prompt me for a phone call, which I left over here, see that.  And I’m going to get a phone call on my phone right here, because it’s set up for that on a preconfigured fashion.  And when I do that, get a phone call, I’m just going to answer that, and I just have to push the # key to say that it is me and acknowledge that request.  If it wasn’t, all I’d have to do is press zero and it automatically reports fraud to my organization directly.  So logging me in on that phone. Now, I’m going to switch now from talking about protecting the identity to moving into protection from malware.  Now, we know that email continues to be a primary place where malware comes into the organization.  As Satya mentioned, we scan over 200 billion emails a month, looking for malware.  And within Office 365 we, of course look for known malware, but we’re also looking for unknown malware, also known as zero day attacks.  And this is when a hacker unfortunately discovers a vulnerability before it’s patched. And then, of course newer attacks are coming in as actually links in emails that as they come in are legitimate, but then they’re updated after the fact to become malicious.  So this time-of-click technology is increasingly important to protect for malware. So let me go into my Outlook experience here, and I have an email that has a number of different links in it, and one of them is malicious, but it was updated after the fact.  And I’m going to go ahead and click on it and show you the experience. Now, when I click on it, this is what Satya spoke about, we take that link, we actually put it in a detonation chamber, and we conduct analysis on it, behavioral analysis, looking for any characteristics that might make it malicious, things like is it an executable or are there elevated privileges, looking for elevated privileges on the device. And if it sees any of that, it takes me to this user page that lets me know that I’ve been protected.  And this is important, right, so the employee knows what’s happened.  It means that they won’t work around the system or take other risky actions as well. So I’m actually going to call for James from my demo support team here to get my machine set up for my virtual machine.  Actually, let me switch over here.  Let’s see if I have it here.  OK, great, all right. Now, moving from email certainly security from that perspective, we’re going to go ahead and move to the other threat vector which is, of course, downloading apps from the Web and another vector that malware comes into the organization. Now, to show you, to do this in a different way, we certainly have done a bunch of work within Windows 10, effectively a generational step with a new technology called Device Guard. Now, there’s long been security around app control to protect malware from running unauthorized applications on the device.  But as attackers have gotten more sophisticated, they’ve been increasingly able to bypass that. Now, with Windows 10 we’ve actually leveraged the latest in virtualization technology, as well as partnering down to the design level of the hardware to stop hackers from being able to run malware that even have gained admin level control of the machine.  So it’s a big shift. Now, to show you that comparison what I’m going to do is look at it in a Windows 7 experience, and then look at this in a Windows 10 experience with Device Guard. So here I have a local virtual machine running, and I have on this side a website with a malicious app.  I trust it but it’s actually malicious.  And on the other side I have my system security showing. And I’m going to go ahead and download this app, and it has a never-seen-before malware on it, so my antivirus is not going to detect it.  And I get a prompt, but I’m going to go ahead and accept it because I trust the system.  But now unfortunately, the malware has gained admin level privileges, and it’s disabled my firewall and my AV solution.  So unfortunately, not protected in this situation. So instead, I’m going to move over and open my Windows 10 virtual machine system and show you that with the Device Guard protection. So same scenario, I have my apps over here that I’m going to download and my system security on this side.  So let me go ahead and run that same experience.  And again I’ll accept that. But now Device Guard is actually checking to make sure the digital signature is both valid, but also signed by a trusted authority like Microsoft or your own IT organizations.  And when it shows that it’s not, it’s blocked.  So in this case I’m protected from this malware thanks to Device Guard. Now, speaking of malware, I certainly need to talk for just a second about pass the hash.  Now, if you’re not familiar with pass the hash or pass the ticket, this is unfortunately what enables a hacker to go from a single compromised device to being able to penetrate multiple devices across your environment. Now, with Windows 10 we are literally ending pass the hash with a new capability called Credential Guard.  Now, I realize that’s a big claim, so let me explain how this works specifically. With Windows 10 for the first time we’re using hardware-based virtualization to isolate the most critical Windows services such as authentication.  With this new isolation-based architecture, sensitive Windows processes are secured, information as well, using credentials that are defended from hackers, thus preventing a pass the hash attack.  So it’s a very big step-function change and making a very big leap around ending those kinds of security threats. Now I’ve talked a lot about protection from an identity perspective and from a malware perspective.  Let me switch over and talk about protection from data loss, also a big area of concern.  We know people are increasingly working in a mobile environment.  That means we all need to do that in a secure way and enable that experience in a secure way. Now with Intune, which is Microsoft’s cloud-based mobile device management and mobile application management solution as part of our Enterprise Mobility Suite, we can protect data across all devices.  So you if you’re enabling bring your own device, or whatever policy you might have in place, what Intune does is it uses conditional access to control the flow of email and other corporate files that are going on to the device based on the policy that IT sets. Now on my legacy MDM vendors that you might be using that require you to deploy cumbersome hardware and that type of thing, Intune as a cloud service is really ready to support that new security posture that Satya spoke about. And I’ll show you what this looks like.  Here I have my personal iPhone, and I want to use it for work.  So I’ve gone through the simple steps of enrolling this device.  So now IT has defined what I’m able to do on this device with corporate data and applications, like where I can save information and how I can share information on this device. So let me show you what that looks like.  I’m going to go into my Outlook experience and email and get some work done, as many of us do, and I just have to enter my PIN, again, because this is a managed and secured app by my company.  Now here I’m in Outlook, and I have this email from Stars here with an attachment that I want to get some work done on.  So I’ll go ahead and open that.  And, again, Word is approved by my organization used for business purposes, so open that up. So maybe in this case I want to save it to my personal Dropbox account and share it.  That would be an unauthorized way, but I’m going to try it anyway.  Maybe I don’t know better, so I’ll go ahead and make a copy there and choose my Dropbox account.  And when I try and save it into my Dropbox account I see that I’m blocked because this is not an approved method for this device.  They have this control over it.  So that’s OK. Well, it turns out I’m a very savvy user, I’m very committed to trying to share this information even though it’s stopping me.  So instead I’m going to try and copy this information, and I’m going to go back and try and send it in email as another way to do that.  So I’ll go back here. Now, because I’m savvy, I’m actually going to switch and go to my personal email identity within Outlook, so I’m now sending it as a personal user trying to create that email.  And as I go in here, I’m going to try and paste that.  But you see there’s no paste option.  It’s been blocked, because when I’m using my personal identity, I don’t have privileges to work with this business data.  But it’s sophisticated enough so if I go and switch now back to my work credentials where I do have permission to send this information, and I go back to paste, there in fact is paste, and it works. So even within the application down to the identity level, you can decide what is and isn’t appropriate for work use and protect it from being sent in the wrong way to the wrong place.  A great example of how you can keep that rich Office experience that people love, and be able to use it both personally and work, but still get the right protections and controls from an IT perspective. We also have a number of partners that have done the integration to have a similar type of experience.  Some examples here I have are Adobe and Box and SAP that provide that same level of control in their applications on the phone, too. Now what I showed you on this device was an enrolled device experience.  It was enrolled with the Mobile Device Management.  But we’re also taking that Outlook and Office app experience I showed you and we’re enabling that without device enrollment so you get that application management without having to do device enrollment.  This makes it easy from a bring your own device adoption perspective very simple.  But also it means you can run that great Office experience side-by-side with a legacy mobile device management vendor you might have in place already. Now I’m going to show you the same scenario, but then this time I’m going to show with Windows 10 with our built-in enterprise data protection capability.  And because it’s built-in, you get a nice, seamless user experience.  And you also get some more granular IT controls as well.  So first of all, I’ll launch this here, so I can show you that we can authenticate in, of course, using my Windows Hello.  Go here.  Another use of the biometrics, so let me just hold it up here.  It’s looking for me.  And you see, again, better than passwords, and more secure, too, and a similar experience. So here is my Windows start screen.  You see I have little icons on the corner of any of the applications that have been approved for business use.  So as a user I see what’s OK for business use versus what’s purely for personal use, making it very simple.  But if I go into the file explorer, you see that goes down even to the file level, not just at the app level.  I have some personal documents as well as work documents. So if I go ahead and open this work document here, similar to what I showed you on the iPhone, I’m going to go ahead and try and copy some sensitive information.  In this case, I’m going to try again and send it in an unauthorized way.  This time I’m going to use Twitter.  You see it doesn’t have that icon, so I’m not supposed to be using it for work purposes, but I’m going to try anyway.  And when I go in here and try and paste, you see this time I actually get a pretty nuanced message.  I see exactly what’s happening.  In this case the policy IT set is that I can go ahead and send, but I’m going to be monitoring this action.  Of course, you can block this completely.  It’s fully configurable.  But you see on Windows 10 with that nice user experience I can get a nice rich message, it’s not just the paste is missing, as well as very granular controls around how I want to manage that, too. Now we talked about some protection capabilities right around identity, around malware and around data loss.  Now let’s switch over to talk about detection which is, again, as Satya mentioned, increasingly important, because we know with all of the great protections we have things like identity theft continue to be a reality.  And unfortunately that specific case is a primary way that hackers are enabling breaches. Now we need to be able to have tools that both monitor and protect when an identity attack happens.  And the way you do this essentially is you monitor the capabilities and you learn what is normal authentication actions, and then you can identify what is abnormal.  And when anomalous is happening, combine that with known threats.  And then you can detect when identities have been compromised, and when an attack is taking place. Now for many of you, it’s a little bit like when you get a call for your credit card.  They see some abnormal behavior, and they think something is up.  It’s the same idea, but applied to identity in that way of learning normal behavior so you can detect anomalous behavior on that front. Now in the cloud, you get this with Azure Active Directory.  We heard from many customers you want the same level of control in your on premises environment.  And that’s where the new Microsoft Advanced Threat Analytics capability comes in.  Here I’m in my Advanced Analytics dashboard.  It essentially gives me a timeline view of different identity-based threats that I might want to consider and understand.  Essentially it lets me know kind of the who the what and the when and lets me get the signal through the noise of a lot of different authentications. Let me start here.  I see that I have a bunch of guesses in terms of looking for a user name.  Someone is trying to guess a user name in my organization.  As I go up I see now they’re using a brute force attack to get from a user name into a password.  They’ve figured out the user name of Michael Debinsky (ph) and unfortunately he didn’t have a strong password it looks like, so in 450 guesses they’ve now secured his password, as well. As I go up I see now it’s moved from yellow to red, this is a really important and high threat, because now Michael Debinsky’s user name and password is being used to sign in from a number of computers and resources he wouldn’t normally use and trying to access into also a number of resources across the company that are unusual for that user name and password.  Again, it’s comparing normal activity and learning that and being able to detect when it’s abnormal. And then as I scroll up here I see, again, a high alert around a pass the ticket attack that’s now taking place in my organization.  This is a moment where we’d really love that new Windows 10 credential guard for stopping this action in this case right here. Now with these new advanced threat analytics insights I can immediately now go take action to stop this breach.  Remember what Satya said, the days between when an attack happens it sits on your network for over 200 days.  Now you can identify this right away before it has an opportunity to sit on your network for all of that time. Now we talked about some identify perspectives around detection and threat.  Let’s also now move to an infrastructure level to talk about that detection and respond level at all up infrastructure.  Now as infrastructure continues to move to the cloud in Azure we’ve now built a comprehensive security system with the Azure Security Center.  The Azure Security Center provides a central view of your security settings across your entire Azure environment, with live monitoring of your security configuration to make sure there’s ongoing good security health.  We’re analyzing your security settings even as they change and bringing back policy-based recommendations, as well as guiding you through the steps to ensure your environment is secure. So I’m going to take a look at this.  Here in my Azure Security Center, click right in here, you see I have a number of recommendations that it’s suggesting to me based on my security posture.  I go in here and you see I have a few things, a few actions it’s asking me to take.  In this case I’m going to choose this adding a Web application firewall.  And I go in there I see a number of Web application firewall partners integrated right into the Security Center.  So I can just choose the one I like. In this case I’m going to choose this Barracuda Web application firewall.  And you can go down and I see that I can actually right here deploy the solution into my Azure environment.  It significantly streamlines the process of provisioning my partner solution, as well as enables you to bring whatever your preferred security vendor is with you to the cloud in a very simple way. Now in addition to the partners shown here we’re also working with folks like Trend Micro, Cisco, Fortinet and Checkpoint, as well as many more to come around anti-malware, as well as next-generation firewalls. The recommendations are great and important, but it’s also about identifying security alerts within your Azure environment, as well.  So next I’ll go down here to my security alerts.  You see I have a number of things showing here.  And if I go down I see a few different things happening and I can drill into any one of these within the security center and find out what’s going on. In this case I see I have a SQL injection attempt being made.  I go in, it’s against my Virtual Machine One, but luckily that Barracuda Web application firewall that I just deployed is protecting me from this attack, which is fantastic.  So let me go up and see what else is going on. Here I see that I have traffic going from the Virtual Machine One to a malicious IP.  Now again, this is tapping into that intelligent security graph that we have at Microsoft that has a broad view of what malicious IPs are.  We can identify this quickly and proactively notify customers about what’s going on.  And then within here I’m also giving recommendations about how to remediate the security situation, as well.  So I can just right here go and fix this, take that insights, and move it into action. Now this is great from an Azure perspective and a cloud perspective.  But we also know that most of our customers are running in a hybrid configuration, meaning you have infrastructure on premises, or in a private cloud, as well as in the cloud with maybe AWS, as well as Azure, of course.  And you want to have that same kind of security view across your entire enterprise estate.  That’s where the Operations Management Suite comes into play. It’s a powerful new solution that collects massive amounts of machine data across your on-premises datacenter, as well as in the cloud, and it brings it together to search, correlate and visualize this massive amount of data so you can detect security threats across your entire estate from cloud to on-premises, as well.  So for example, I could use the Operations Management Suite to identify if I had other virtual machines in my own datacenter communicating with that same malicious IP.  I notice that in Azure I can look across the entire organization to find it, as well. Now I’ve shown you just a few examples of Microsoft’s built-in security technology, working in partnership with the security ecosystem across the globe and tapping into that intelligent security graph that we have to help make all of our customers safer. With that I’ll turn it back to Satya.  Thanks.
Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft. Thanks for sitting down with me.
Thank you, Jon.
It's been about nine months, hasn't it, that you've been in the job?
That's right.
So, just like the PC was the battleground for the '80s, the web for the '90s, the mobile device — iPods, smartphones — for the last decade, looks like the cloud is shaping up to be the battleground for this decade. And everybody wants to rule the cloud. Oracle came out earlier this month talking about their cloud strategy and infrastructure as a service. Of course Amazon's been there a while. Google wants to get into it and eat Microsoft's lunch. You have been pushing Microsoft's cloud initiatives among other things for quite a while now. Why is Microsoft positioned to be the winner here?
First of all, to characterize what's happening and why the cloud becomes the battleground: The vision that I've been talking about is this mobile-first, cloud-first world. And when I say mobile-first, cloud-first, it's actually not the mobility of the device, it's the mobility of the human experience across devices. And the way that happens is because the cloud orchestrates it. We will live in a multi-device world. In a given day, every one of us is going to interact with sensors, interact with small devices, large screens. And all of that happens where you have your data and applications because of the cloud. And that's why I think it's a pretty strategic battleground. And in our case, we have a pretty comprehensive vision for what the cloud is and what the future of distributed computing is. When we think about the cloud, we think about first the application tier of it. We have some of the big, large-scale cloud applications for commercial in terms of Office 365 and Dynamics CRM. When it comes to consumer we have things like XBox Live and Bing. So we have a diverse set of, I would call them, cloud applications. That's what, in fact, has led us to build a mega-scale cloud platform in Azure. But quite frankly, we don't stop there. Because I don't believe that one single North American company or a couple of North American companies are going to corner the world's compute, storage and network.
Why not? Microsoft did a good job cornering the operating system market.
I don't think that's the way the regulatory regime — and what I mean by that is, you may control the software, but not the actual running of it. Because I think the world is going to remain distributed because of both speed-of-light issues, power, regulation, geopolitics. There will be other clouds. There will be a few mega-scale clouds like Azure. But we also don't stop there by building our servers, which are really the edge of our cloud. We enable others to build clouds. So that's the vision that we have. When you ask the question, why do we think we have a unique contribution to make in this cloud battleground? It's the apps, it's the mega-scale cloud platform in Azure, as well as our servers, which we really characterize as the edge of our cloud.
You know what Microsoft's critics will say. They'll say Microsoft got cocky in the late '90s. They missed mobility. They missed some web services and e-commerce things, let Google and Amazon grow so big. Why are they going to get it right now with the cloud. What's Microsoft's superpower that's going to work for you here?
In the cloud I would say we absolutely caught the trend. See, it's no longer about, hey is Microsoft in the cloud business. We have a $4.5 billion business that's growing well and it's fantastic to see. It's just that in relation to our success of $70 billion it's a small business. But the overall magnitude of our cloud business today shows that we've caught the trend at the right time, jumped on it with a unique value proposition and we're now further accelerating. So it's no longer for debate, whether we get the cloud. And quite frankly, when I think about — take an attribute of our cloud, which is the operational security rigor. That's one of the reasons why many customers choose our cloud, especially internationally. That's not something that you grow overnight. That's something that comes from having operated over the last five, seven years for highly demanding enterprise customers. That's the position that we now have.
And it's expensive to build this, right? Talk about what you think your competitive positioning is versus an Amazon, a Google, a VMware, in terms of your operation in places like China, and what it's going to take to succeed there.
I think that if you're not already spending a lot of capital in the order of four or five billion dollars each year to just grow your cloud, probably it's a little too late to enter the market. I mean, that's the entry barrier, and there are a few of us who are in that mega-scale of cloud — 
So that's the cost of entry. If you're not prepared to spend four or five billion dollars a year, forget it?
I mean, that's the rate at which — it's the same thing. I mean, if you're a network operator today, you have to be in that business, and if you're a mega-scale cloud provider you're already committing a lot of capital. In our case we've been committing it for multiple years and we're not alone. There are at least two other players like that, Amazon and Google in particular. But we are one of the three in that category. And the way we've not only done that, but one of the things that we've really invested in is this enterprise cloud, which is — we have data centers in 19 countries. We have made sure we get the certifications to operate under the various regulatory regimes for vertical industries like financial services, or different countries' data sovereignty laws. That's hard work. China is a great example. In fact, we now are the only public cloud company from North America, or global public cloud company, that operates in China. Both Office 365 and Azure. And it's doing very, very well for us. Because it now makes what I would say global infrastructure available for every Chinese company and every multinational that needs to operate in China. That's the kind of investment, learning, progress.
Are you comfortable with the compromises you might have had to make to do that in China?
There are no compromises. In the case of running the public cloud, the Chinese law states that you want to have a local Chinese operator. This is a completely disconnected cloud from the rest of our cloud operation. It definitely has symmetry with what we do, so that means if somebody wants to move virtual machines or their application from the United States or Europe to China they can move it, but it's its own instance.
When people on Main Street think about Microsoft, depending on age, they might think about Windows. They might think about mobile devices and how that's working, or not. They might think about XBox if they're younger. A lot of people — unless they're in business — don't think about business. But the majority of your revenue, I think 2/3 of operating profit actually comes from your commercial segment. In an environment where HP is splitting up business and consumer, in an environment where eBay is splitting up payments and marketplace, and your focus is so much on cloud, why not just spin off the consumer business? Have a good relationship with it, but focus on one thing?
One of the things that's really been key to our success — the way, even, our footprint in the enterprise grew — is because of what I term as dual-use. People using Windows and Office for their personal use, and taking it to work. You see that today, even. In fact, we have a pretty profitable, big consumer Windows business, and consumer Office business. One of the subscriptions in Office 365 that's really doing well is the Office Home and Premium subscription. So to us, the way I characterize it is, let's go after the users and their dual use. In fact, I want us to shine, and want to be the best in class around people who are these dual users, who want to use things which are our tools, our platforms for their home as well as work, and it crosses over. There's a lot of work — I mean today there are so many seams — I mean, we brought OneDrive and OneDrive for Business, Exchange and Outlook together. These are things — and Skype and Lync together. These are things that I believe we have a unique contribution to make so that these markets, quote-unquote, don't feel as they are today, which is fragmented.
Just before we sat down, I took a look at the App Store. And the top-grossing productivity app on the iPad was still Microsoft Word. I believe Excel is #5. I imagine you're happy about that. What have you learned from the experience of launching that? It's been a few months.
You know, we have got tremendous success in terms of downloads. We have also had lots of learnings, even in business model. Of course, a lot of the users on the iPad happen to be already people who are Office 365 subscribers in the enterprise and they get to use now across all devices. But we also are getting brand new growth, because people who are buying, using our subscription offers. Now, we have a la carte offers in the iPad and the iOS store, and so that's really helping us grow. And this notion that we also can now do new types of modules. Because when I think about productivity, I'm happy to have Word and Excel and PowerPoint in the top-grossing applications in any application store. But I also want us to push the envelope of, what does productivity mean in these new device form factors? Some of the things we're doing with Power BI, or Delve, or even Cortana, are examples of us rethinking productivity, where we really give back more of your time to you as an individual. That's where we're going.
Google's trying to use the cloud to attack you with Chromebooks, with Chrome OS. You've done some things with pricing, particularly in smaller devices on Windows, it looks like to strengthen your market share and your position. Tell me how do you think about that kind of competition in this cloud era. And strategically, what you're willing to give up, and what you're not.
One of the decisions we made very early on, as part of when I became CEO, was really to change the Windows business model so that we could really get more designs, more flexibility in the full price ranges that we want to compete in. So, the low-cost PCs, now we have a connected SKU of Windows that's really helping us get to price points which are Chromebook-like. And we're very competitive. You get a full PC experience versus just an Internet-connected terminal at those price points, running full Office, we think that makes it very competitive. We also have low-cost tablets now. We obviously have phones. So the combination — I was recently in Shenzen seeing some of the ODMs and OEMs doing some of these designs. And that's fantastic to see. Even this holiday, I think you'll see, both in terms of low-cost tablets as well as low-cost PCs with full capability of Microsoft Office available, which I think will only grow the market.
You and some other tech executives have talked about how, in this mobile and cloud era, it's more important than ever to have an executive team that's working closely, seamlessly together. Because things are moving so quickly, and as you mentioned, people are connecting from multiple types of devices and want a consistent experience. Microsoft, within in the industry, has had a reputation for being a place where some knife fights can break out over turf, ofter territory. Steve Ballmer said a couple of years ago during a reorganization that he was trying to break some of that down. What do you think you bring to that effort, that's got to be so important to where you want to go? How's your team doing?
I mean, culturally, it's super-important to have teams that come together with a level of trust, so that we can go after both our business objectives and more importantly the products. Because one of the worst things that one could do in tech is to have organizational seams show up in your products. Because that's when customers suffer and your business ultimately suffers. In our case, really, the simplification of our strategy, where we talk about it — we're a platform and productivity company. That's what we're doing, and organize around that. We are in gaming, but we're in gaming for its own sake. Let's not even try to think of that as part of the core, but it's a thing on the side that we're very proud of, we have a dedicated team for it. So we've organized ourselves so that we can actually work as one play, one team, and have the experience drive both what we build and how we work with each other versus any organizational boundary. And of course this is something — it's not just about talking it, but it's living it each day. We as a senior leadership team are every week together, talking the hard issues. It's not about trying to put them under the rug, but it's about being able to surface them. There's tension: business model, product. But it's the constant vigil on it that I believe is the way to make improvements and changes in culture.
Are there things that you're reading, that you're asking your team to read — things that you're watching or looking at to kind of drive that point home?
We had, actually, for very many years, a Microsoft structure which was a business unit structure. We managed each one of the businesses independently. There was of course integration, but at the same time, the accountability culture was about the business unit performance. We always had a shared sales force, but the product creation was always inside of these business units. Now we've brought it together under the One Microsoft rubric to be one play as I say, one strategy. And the thing that requires is a fair amount of coordination. And if there's anything, communication. One of the books I first recommended that everyone read, when I first got on, was Nonviolent Communication by Marshall Rosenberg, which used to be able to say, look, let us make sure we are empathetic to each other's needs, because it requires that. Where does Windows and Office and Cloud come together. But at the same time, each one of these things, for example our cloud strategy, is cross-platform. So we've got to recognize that. Even though we are working together in a very integrated piece, each piece does have uniqueness in terms of their business goals, and we're able to accomplish them. 
How do you think about what you're not going to do anymore? Or what you're going to do less of? Because it often gets said, good management isn't just about deciding what to do, it's also about deciding what not to do, especially when you've got the kinds of resources that a company like Microsoft has. What are you not doing?
One of the key things we stopped doing was treating our consumer and enterprise businesses as completely two distinct things. I mean, even think about what we're doing with Bing. Bing is now central to all of the innovation in Office around information. The fact that Power BI has a natural language interface. A lot of the technology comes from Bing. The fact that this product in Office 365 called Delve that is really an ability to discover information in Office much more like a ranking result of a search engine is, again, technology from Bing. Azure has grown because of all the learnings of how to create at-scale distributed systems inside of Bing. So to me, by organizing ourselves where the technology layers have been brought together — we don't have two emails, two Skype and Lync stacks, two file systems between OneDrive and OneDrive for Business — and thinking about the technology that serves, has been the biggest change that has happened, in fact, in the last year for us. And we are starting to see the dividends of it. And that's a huge shift, actually.
I think it's Xbox Studios, some of the content stuff you've decided to stop doing. Other specific things like that? Projects or initiative types that you've just decided, "That's — that's not what we're going to focus on right now?"
I would say the Xbox decision where we said we'll focus back on gaming as the core priority. And not only that, by the way, we also are bringing together what we are doing on the PC and the console. Xbox Live, like Office 365, is an amazing asset for us in the cloud, which is the gamer tag. And we're now able to bring these two things together. So I would call it more about taking out the incoherence we may have had in a variety of our efforts. Bringing them together with this focus around productivity and platforms. That's what we're doing a lot better on. And in some cases we have made these decisions where we have completely scaled back from some of our entertainment. We'll still be a great platform for others' entertainment, from a distribution perspective. But we don't need to be first-party in it.
Let's talk about some of the Grace Hopper stuff and then get back to cloud. A lot of people don't know you yet. It's only been nine months, you haven't been front and center that much. And you said some things to this conference of professional women that upset some people. Do you understand why what you said upset so many people? And can you elaborate on why you think that is?
Yeah. I've sort of obviously in the last four or five days reflected a lot on it. It's been a very humbling and learning experience for me. And one of the best pieces of advice I got, when I got to be CEO was to be bold and be right. And I was bold going to Grace Hopper. I wanted to go to Grace Hopper. I wanted to imbibe the spirit of the place, understand the real issues so that I can be a better CEO, a better leader, and work the real issues. And so I feel very, very good of having gone there, spent the time, spoken to so many people, gotten so many ideas. But I was completely wrong in the answer I gave to the question that was asked around how should women promote themselves and make advances to their own careers. Because I basically took my own approach, to how I've approached my career and sprung it on half the humanity. And that was just insensitive. It was ... as I reflect on it, and especially since the conference, because I just gave a very generic answer — based on, quite frankly, what I've believed and how I've practiced and lived my life — without thinking through, what if someone was faced with bias in their career? How would they feel by sort of getting advice that says, 'Be passive'? I abso- I mean, in the face of bias, the last thing I want anyone is to be passive. If anything, both leaders like me need to take on responsibility to break down the barriers, break down the biases, create systems that are better functioning; and every individual faced with bias should also not be passive. And Maria [Klawe] answered it very well when she said, advocate for yourself. Find other mentors and sponsors who can advocate for you. And that is the right way. And that's been, like, the learning for me. I mean, I said something that was just generic, but I come out of it with real understanding, real empathy that this is a real issue that we want to make real progress on. And I just was, I would say a bit naive in thinking of my own personal experience versus understanding that I'm speaking to women who really, really want to make sure that people like me are making it easy for them to be able to participate in the workforce fully.
Some in the industry would say it's a meritocracy. And therefore this isn't an issue. But it sounds like you're saying you do see that there has been bias out there?
Right. In a meritocracy, I mean, the thing that, finally ... we all live in a meritocracy and that's what is the optimism we have. But even in a meritocracy there is so much subjective decisions that are made by all of us. How do you make sure that those subjective decisions — whom to promote, when to promote — are not influenced by unconscious bias? So that's where, you know, just because I was .... In 22 years, I came to Microsoft as somebody who knew nobody here, and in 22 years I've become CEO, and so in some sense I'm a product of the system that worked. But I can't take my one example and say that's how it is for everyone. And anyone who's been faced with — "Hey, why didn't I get that promotion? I did that great work!" Those are real issues even in meritocracies and have to be talked about. They don't affect everybody the same way. If you're a minority, it affects you differently. And that, I think, is an issue that needs to be talked about, and leaders like me actually need to do work on it.
Last bit on that, since you mentioned it, and then we'll move back to cloud: Some people would say, and have said to me, he's the CEO of Microsoft. Microsoft is a big, powerful company. He can fix this. That's what I expect. What do you say to those people?
Actually it's absolutely right. I mean, there is no reason why I shouldn't go to work on it. And in fact, one of the data points that I shared today in our all-hands [meeting] was, one of the things I came back and I asked our HR department is, hey, let's take the principle of equal pay for equal work and let's also talk about equal opportunity for equal work. Those are two core principles for us. On the equal pay for equal work, it turns out we have a very tight band. It's around .5%. In fact we went in — so within a .5%, all ethnic minorities and women are within that. 
At Microsoft?
At Microsoft. And we looked at women in the U.S. in particular, because that's the data cut that's easy to do for us. And it turns out that last year 99.7% of the men's salaries is what women make. So it's different from what perhaps is normally felt across all industries. But we're doing well on that. But by the way, I'm not celebrating any of it. Because all I just said was, we pay equally if you're in the same level. But the real issue is, do we have enough people of different ethnicity, and women in those levels? Do we have them in my SLT [senior leadership team], do we have them in, you know, our corporate vice president ranks? Are we promoting them as vigorously? So there are a lot of other secondary things that we have to go actively work. But to your point, of course, the expectation of anyone should be that a CEO like me should go to work on this and have some principles guide it. And the two principles that I really want to stay grounded on is equal pay for equal work, and equal opportunity for equal work. And we'll make progress on that.
Going back to cloud, can you explain to me how the business model is going to shake out? Because I look at infrastructure as a service: Amazon and Google and others are trying to take the margins to zero, it seems like. When you look at software as a service, Google with its version of the Office suite, trying to take the cost to zero. Where's the money going to actually be made three to five years from now in this cloud era?
In all of these cases, there will always be some price competition by someone on these various layers. I mean, ultimately there are only two things that I think you compete on. You compete on value, you compete on price. And depending on which layer against which competitor at what time, the equation changes. But our own theory — for example, one of the things that has happened is as we have grown our cloud, especially around infrastructure, one of the things that has grown nicely for us is our server business. It's not, at least in the short term or the intermediate term, zero sum. Who knows what the long-term stability is. But as we have made our software much more competitive by exercising it in building our own cloud, what has happened is we have built much better server products. SQL 2014 is an amazing example of that. It's the best database release we've ever had, which has got in-memory everywhere. And that's doing super well. So sometimes where you make your margin, where you make your revenue versus where you're building the real power, real strength are not exactly the same place. Over time, even on our cloud, when you look at the margins of some of the higher-level services of Office 365, very different than, say, commodity cold storage. So I feel very good about the portfolio I have — with my servers, which, as I said earlier, is, like, at the edge of our cloud; our infrastructure services; and our higher-level SaaS services. And that portfolio allows us to have a more balanced monetization and at the same time be able to compete with anyone who tries to make it a price war on a given dimension.
So it's a matter of having all the different courses of the meal, so you have options on what to charge for and where the value is, based on what you see the customer do?
Absolutely. And I also think one of the things that is under-estimated is, it all seems like a commodity until you have too much of it, which is — what I mean by that is, enterprises, what do they care a lot about? They care about SLAs. They care about performance.
Service level agreements, meaning up-time, is it working when I need it?
Exactly. And so the point is, there are many other ways to take something that is just, quote-unquote, commodity, and differentiate by levels of service, by flexibility you provide. And all of those become, you know, pricing tiers. But the thing that I don't want us as a company to shy away from is usage first. Because I think if anything, the new competition has taught is that, you know, what matters is do not try to equate revenue and usage day one. Have the flexibility to be able to get usage. And then there will be other ways to monetize usage when people want a better service level agreement. 
Can you say more about that? What do you mean by not equating revenue and usage?
I mean, take OneDrive and OneDrive for Business. It's our easiest one. We want everybody to use OneDrive. And then when you are starting to use it for business, that's when we want to monetize. So we do not want to have you only start using us when you have a business license or subscription. We want to have you use us when you just want to save any file or any document, any artifact of yours. And then have a natural way for us to monetize as you use more of it in the commercial context.
Kind of the freemium model, which a lot of startups in Silicon Valley latched onto. But Microsoft has always been fond of getting paid for the software it spent so much time and money developing.
Well, we've always had freemium. Sometimes our freemium was called piracy. And — I would say — now there are a lot of, I mean, as I said, there are zero-price Windows SKUs. We have many, many offers of Office. I mean, you talked about Office competition. And when it comes to education and a lot of other markets, we're as competitive as anyone else in terms of pricing. We've never shied away from it. And that freemium model is something that I think is here to stay, and we know how to compete in it.
Your database product, I think, is at a $6 billion annual run rate. Should Oracle worry?
I feel we have made a lot progress on our database. For us, the database is just one element of our entire infrastructure service. The main thing that I feel that we've done is really taken some of the innovation, like in-memory, and done a fantastic job of stitching it everywhere, in all of the classical uses of the database. And now even playing in some of the new big-data places. So I feel competition is going to be robust. Oracle is going to be a competitor. There are many new competitors. But I feel like we'll be fine. I mean, think about the journey here, which is I think 20 years. And that's the kind of persistence sometimes you have to have to make real progress.
What message should we take from the acquisitions that you've done thus far? Enterprise cloud-related in particular. And maybe you even throw Minecraft into that in some way. I don't know, because everything runs in the cloud these days to some extent. What are you looking for that you're willing to acquire rather than feel like you've already got it here at Microsoft?
Well, one of the things that — we've done a lot of acquisitions — is adding capabilities to both Office 365 and Azure. One of the best acquisitions we did in the last couple of years was StorSimple, which is a beautiful appliance that you can stick into your data center and it automatically cloud-tiers your storage. Because one of the things that happens inside of data centers is you're continuously buying more storage, more storage. Because guess what? Every application is generating more data. And a lot of it is cold. In other words, it's never hardly used. And perhaps the most cost-efficient way to think about that is to just push it into the cloud, because, after all, the cloud has got economics that are scale economics.
Now, you're talking about the hybrid cloud, basically, right?
Exactly.
So when you put this appliance in, you can have storage right there. And then when you need to, you can pull it from Microsoft.
That's correct. That's correct. So that's doing very, very well. That was an acquisition that's now part of our portfolio. In fact, we bought another company along the same lines for disaster recovery. And so we have really now got a very robust offering, not only just for Microsoft, but even for VMware installations. So we are able to do a good job of being able to really provide that disaster recovery back plane in the cloud for any data center. Because you can imagine, when you're in a data center, you want to make sure that there's business continuity. And you can, in fact, use our cloud without abandoning your data center. So that's a place we have done great work. Another area is in our Active Directory. One of the big crown jewels of our strategy and our asset base is Active Directory. What it is, is it's the place where all of the identity — I mean, you can even think of it as the Facebook of the Enterprise. It's owned by the Enterprise. It's where you log in. It's your credentials. And it becomes the place where not only do you do the login and get access to all of your cloud services, but that's where you manage. In fact, if you're an Enterprise customer, you're trying to use Salesforce, Office 365, even the Amazon cloud, now you have one control plane to provision users, de-provision users, do security, because the best place to find whether you've been penetrated is to look at the login patterns. And we bought some companies there. Two-factor authentication. So those are the kinds of things that we've been building great robust capability in, in both Office 365 and Azure.
Interesting — you mention storage and security, which are hot areas right now. And there are a number of opportunities out there. But people might not think of those things first, even when they think about where Microsoft already is in the Enterprise. Are those areas where you're still looking to be opportunistic?
We come at it slightly differently when we think about, when we say storage and we say security. Because one of the things is, you have to be playing to, sort of, your strengths. What's my strength in security? It's identity. And what is the security around it? So we now have three things that we have brought together in something called the Enterprise Mobility Suite, which is really doing very well for us. It's identity management. It is device management so that you can set policy, because people are bringing their phones or tablets, iOS, Android, or Windows. And you want as an I.T. person to be able to have a way to administer all of that. And we have that, both from an identity and a device management, and data protection so that there's no information leakage. That's something that's a natural thing for Microsoft to do. And for customers to expect us to do. That's a place. Even in storage, it's the cloud storage. It's SQL. It's big data. It's the cloud tiering of your virtualized infrastructure. Those are the things that I feel — where we have a unique contribution to make.
What needs to be fixed still, with security in the cloud? Because we've seen all kinds of scary things happen. iCloud hacking. Dropbox, Snapchat. So far, it doesn't seem to have shaken everyone's confidence in the cloud as an idea, but not to say that won't happen eventually. What do we still need to fix?
This is going to be something that's going to be front and center. I would say both privacy and security are perhaps topics that each one of us has to one, take some principal stances on. And then keep working on it.
And how do you differentiate between the two, privacy and security?
See, first on privacy, it's very simple. In our case, we've sort of taken the stance that the user is in control and we want to be transparent. So that — that's sort of what every product of ours needs to really adhere to, both on the consumer side — and, of course, on the enterprise side we don't set the policy. Our customers who use our infrastructure set the policy. Then when it comes to security, our core is that we have to have great operational security. It's a constant thing. It's not where we can sit on and say, "Oh, we've got great operational security." Every day you learn about the new attack vectors. And you get better and you get better. But the truth is that if you're running something as complex as Azure and Office 365, your learning curve is so much better than anyone else who's not dealing with all of these various attack vectors. That doesn't mean that something bad won't happen. But it means that we will have capability that is more sophisticated than anybody else. But we have to keep at it. The other thing on security, though, is the stance we have taken around what does it mean to work within some framework of law? Because one of the key things that matters — matters to corporations, matters to citizens, matters to companies in other countries — is what is the framework within which you're operating? In our case, we have drawn the line and said that, one, we don't give any unfettered access to data in our cloud to any government agency without some due process of law. And we are going to fight any court orders to access data that's overseas. Because we think that that's important for us to take a stance so that the global ability of clouds doesn't get stymied.
My sense of privacy and my country's sense of security might be at odds with each other. 
And I absolutely believe the governments have a role to play in protecting their citizens' interests. And in their national interest. I absolutely think that every government has to do that, because you and I as citizens of the United States feel secure because our government is doing that. The only thing that I believe we need to now put in place, though, is what's the legal framework within which the government operates to protect its citizens, and protect their national interests?
We're pretty far from getting that framework at this point, aren't we?
But I'm still hopeful. I mean, that's what I've advocated and that's what Brad Smith, who's our general counsel, and others in the industry. And I'm hopeful for the dialogue and that we will get to the right place. Because that's the only way forward.
Are you pushing on that in Washington?
Absolutely. Absolutely.
All right. Nine months in, a lot has happened. It's a fast moving industry. The economy, the markets are going through a period of great volatility. How do you feel about the whole global economic picture, and how that affects your plans going forward?
I mean, it's actually very interesting. When I look at how we're doing at least currently — we seem to be doing pretty well in some of the developed markets, including the United States. We have our quarterly results next week and we'll talk more about it. But I feel good about what I'm seeing in the traditional markets where we've been strong. I would say the emerging markets have been a little more challenging for us. And that's a place where we're also trying new business models. I spent two weeks in Asia recently, and learned a lot about what it takes to succeed in these markets is probably not the same — that worked for us traditionally. New business models, what does it mean to monetize post-sale, cloud? Because these markets probably will bypass entire generations of technology and come to something new. So it's going to require a lot more diversity in the approach that we take, both in terms of product and business model. And things, as you said, are fast-moving. And the ability to really learn from that. That's why one of the key things that we have changed in our own metrics is usage, usage, usage. Which is, wherever we are seeing something getting used, that to us is an early indicator that there might be something that people want. And then let's figure out how to make that great. And then let's go figure out monetization. It's a very different approach. And the new platforms and the new ways of delivering things enables us to do it.
All right. Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft — I appreciate all the time. And it's going to be interesting to see how all these things shape up, heading into the midpoint of the decade.
Thank you so much, Jon.
You have been described, I think it was Fortune magazine, as a skinny, contemplative, questioning the world kind of guy. You write about the poetry of code and cricket in this book. How did you get this job running this company? 
Look, I mean, for me the only company that I've really known is Microsoft. I have spent 25 years of my life at this company, I'm one of those consummate insiders, and, you know, you'll have to ask someone else as to how I got this job. But the thing that I feel is that innate sense of purpose of why am I here and why this company's here and the connection between the two. 
All right. So, let me take a second and dig into my bag here and pull out a copy of the book, right? Since fundamentally that's why we're here. "Hit Refresh" is the title, but the subtitle is "The Quest to Rediscover Microsoft's Soul." Kind of implies this company lost its soul. 
The entire metaphor of hit refresh, the browser has this beautiful logic when you hit refresh on your browser. It doesn't replace everything. It replaces only those pixels that need to be replaced. And I think that is what I wanted to capture. You know, any company that has been successful and needs to continue to drive that success will have to drive transformation. But you have to be smart. 
One of the things you're trying to do in this book is talk about your views on corporate culture. You're very, very focused on that in this book, and you say, "You know, people always ask me how you doing getting Microsoft's corporate culture changed?" And you say, and these are your words, "I give them what I think is a very Eastern answer. You know, we're doing fine, but we're not quite there yet because maybe we'll never be there." Which gets me to this, I suppose, kind of Eastern question: Where do you find your brain space? 
That's a deep question, Kai. 
Take all the time you want. 
I think the thing that I have found inspiration in is the ability to reflect, perhaps, on my fallibilities. That's, I think, what I somehow, or with a lot of trial and error, have stumbled into. So I'm most effective when I can start recognizing the mistakes I make. And that's what gives me the impetus to be able to push and change.
What's the last semi-significant mistake you made? 
I would say the realization that in many cases, customers have already chosen to work with you and yet you consciously, or unconsciously, abandon them to go work off on the new shiny object is a mistake I've made recently and in the past. And every time I made the mistake, the good part was I've been able to recognize it fast enough. It's tempting in tech to sometimes move on to the next thing. Except we all need to work to help others move with us. And, that's, I think, what makes Microsoft unique in that sense, and it's something that at least me, as a CEO of Microsoft, got to get right.
Let me run through a couple of things that are of import now in public policy that I know Microsoft has a position on and I need to get your thoughts about. First, of course, is immigration and [Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals]. You are an immigrant. You have dealt with the intricacies of the American immigration system; you know it probably better than most CEOs. You run a global company. I'm sure there are "Dreamers" within 100 yards of where we're sitting. Are you concerned about the current state of American immigration? The debate over immigration in this country right now? 
You know, first I'll admit it's a complex topic. But that said, I am definitely gung-ho about our ability as America to work this out in a way that we can get to an immigration policy that is enlightened, that is in line with our own long-term competitive interests. But we have to do work. The Congress has to do work, we in companies will have to do our work. But absolutely I believe immigration is what makes us stronger, more competitive and let's stick with it. 
Tax reform is item No. 2 or 3 in Congress depending on what day it is. Specifically, a substantial cut in the corporate tax rate. How important is that for you and for this company? 
It's No. 2 after immigration. You know, for me, tax reform I think needs to think through what is it that we want to do in the U.S. so that we can create more of an incentive for people to invest? Quite honestly as Microsoft, that's not my No. 1 issue. I am investing in the United States. I am, you know, we pay taxes here, we pay taxes elsewhere. If anything, what my interest would be, some global tax regime that has some equilibrium. Because, I think the stability for a multinational company like ours to be able to do business world over where we are paying taxes, we are contributing locally in every country and we're able to invest is what's most important. 
Part of the I guess theory behind you doing this book is to lay out your vision for the future of this company. You talk a lot about cloud technology which you ran before you got the top job. You talk about the HoloLens and augmented or mixed reality, a lot of talk about artificial intelligence here, which is all great and whiz bang. I wonder though if getting those right makes up for you guys having missed mobile?
I mean it's always the case when a company like ours that's been around for 42 years, and here we are competing with a whole lot of new people, and that means we got some things right and we may have missed some things. But the question is if you missed something you don't rue that fact, you really look at what's the next turn. We're very excited about the cloud. That's something that's really driving a lot of our current growth, by the way. And now I believe the next big waves are going to be these two — mixed reality and A.I. and we definitely are on the forefront of it.
Paul Allen and Bill Gates when they started this company, the mission was in essence a computer on every desk right so that people would be connected and that would change the economy, which it has. With all of these things you're working on now — the cloud and the Hololens and A.R. and all of that. What does it look like if you are as successful as Bill Gates and Paul Allen were 40 years ago?
When I joined the company even as late as 1992 we to talk about our mission as a PC in every home and every desk. And just by even the end of that decade, at least in the developed world, we had pretty much accomplished quote unquote "that mission." That's when it struck me that that was a goal as opposed to a mission. Our goal from the very first day when Bill and Paul created the very first product that this company produced, which was the basic language interpreter for the Altair, was to create technology so that others can create more technology. That's what I see.
There's a moment in this book where — well I should back up here and explain that there's a not small part of this book that's personal, about your journey, about your family and about your oldest son Zain, who was born disabled with cerebral palsy has required hospitalization and care. And there's a moment in the book where you you were sitting in his hospital room one night.
That was a much later because he's had many surgeries and one night I was sitting in a hospital room and watching all of the machinery, all of these computers around the children's hospital in Seattle that in fact were running many of them windows and it hit home that the work we do here is so ingrained in our economy and in our society. And here it is, in his most perilous time, he's sitting, I mean he's in a hospital bed managed with devices and software that we built.
It bears a mention here and you say this in the book, I'm not making this up, you basically would not be here if it were not for your wife. And her having given up her career as an architect to care for the kids including Zain and a daughter who's got some learning challenges. Talk about that for a little bit.
Yeah I mean that's absolutely right. Anu is my life partner her and I've known her all my life. We grew up together. But for, quite frankly, the sacrifices she had to make I wouldn't be here. She has been able to hold the front and home with Zain and all of the other challenges we face, but also as someone who through all of this, as helped me grow. She's the one who has influenced a lot of how I think on the most important topics.
One of the things that's big in tech right now — and has been for a number of years but is becoming more pressing — is the issue of diversity and specifically women in technology. What is Microsoft's role in that, and how do we boost that pipeline? Because tech companies always say "oh we don't have women in the pipeline! So, you can't blame us if 4 percent of our engineers are women." How do we fix that?
Well I mean there's two sides to it I think. One is we have to make it more amenable, inviting — computer science as a curriculum. But the first place where I want us to, instead of worrying about the supply side, we at this company have to every day get better at the diversity and inclusiveness of the people who are already here. Because the best way we can make it more attractive for more women to join computer science, join companies like Microsoft is for them to come here, thrive here, feel a sense of belonging and inclusion. That's I think what's the most important agenda I have in this company.
Do you feel like you have a clue as to what's going on down in the cubicles and building 72 across the hall.
You know one of the most intimidating things that I do is this town hall which is a Skype broadcast where people can have live emojis, feedback which is all anonymous on what I'm saying. And I analyze it afterwards. How many thumbs up or thumbs down I got.
Is it really that easy thumbs up or thumbs down?
And there's lots of other emotions too people express. But you know it's always hard. You're absolutely right that being a CEO means that sometimes you get abstracted from what's happening. But I think the real power comes when you are able to synthesize. And there is, it really is something that you have to take and make a conscious decision and take time on.
I want to start with something that’s a little bit more in tune with your own personality, and that is your love of cricket. I actually brought something for you. One of the anecdotes that you tell in the book, “Hit Refresh,” is that when you’re on a conference call, you like to hold a Kookaburra cricket ball. So I went literally to the ends of the Earth to find this thing. They’re not easy to find. Tell us about your love of cricket, what it means to you and how it influences your life as a person and a leader.
First of all, thank you so much. The one thing that people have found out because of the book is I love cricket, and so I’ve got a lot of Kookaburra balls now. I really appreciate it. Growing up in India — I would say for South Asians — this very English game has become more than a religion. How it happened, it’s one of those artifacts of history. For me, when I look back, I think it’s true in most team sports. In fact, the other day, I had the great fortune of going and seeing the Seahawks train, and [Seahawks coach] Pete [Carroll] was explaining how he even sets up the training session. It brought back the memories because some of the coaches I’ve played under and the captains I’ve played under in cricket — I think these team sports grab you and teach you so many lessons. In my case, in the dusty fields of the Deccan Plateau. In fact, that is the place where I played a lot of cricket and then I went back recently, and so I write about the lessons. One of the incidents I recount is a captain I played under. I was a bowler and I was bowling trash that day, so this guy replaces me and takes a wicket — gets us a breakthrough. And then gives the ball back. That incident has had a lot of influence because, why did he do it? He could have just broken all my confidence, thrown me out of the team, but for some reason, he decided, “You know what? I’m going to give this ball back.” I went on to take more wickets and have a decent season. That ability, that sensibility of what leaders do to bring teams along to do their best work, you can learn from team sport.
I know that it also teaches endurance. I believe one of the types of cricket that you like to watch, and perhaps play, is test cricket? Can you explain for this American audience what test cricket is? He could have just broken all my confidence, thrown me out of the team, but for some reason, he decided, “You know what? I’m going to give this ball back.”
There’s a huge debate going on in the cricket community, because we now have a version of cricket, which is like baseball. Which I know Americans think is long, but for us, that’s the shortest form of cricket. Whereas, I love the five-day test cricket. It’s like a Russian novel. It’s got plots, subplots and it’s just beautiful. The debate really is: How does that continue in its popularity? Nevertheless, I’m a big fan and I was very clear even with ESPN Cricinfo: If test cricket goes away, they lose one fan at least.
You actually got to sit down with ESPN Cricinfo, what was that like? Because I know that was a highlight for you of the tour.
It is really fun. I had never been to Lords in London, which is the home of cricket, as they like to call it. I’ve been past it, I’ve watched it on telly a lot of times, but I’d never been in there. So to go to this hallowed ground… it’s one of those other fascinating things that happens, I guess, when people go to places where you’ve read everything about. Cricket has a lot of literature, by the way, around it, and I’ve read everything. This is one of those places that you walk in after having read about everything for a lifetime and then you see the place, and it was just fun. And then to have an interview … as Frank Shaw, who works with me was telling me, “I don’t know who was more excited, whether the interviewer or I was.” I was really excited about that.
Let’s take a look at this picture. Feb. 4, 2014, you were named the third CEO in Microsoft’s history. You’re here with Bill Gates and Steve Balmer, the prior two. What was going through your mind at this point? And what do you wish you could go back and tell that guy in the middle right now about what he was about to face?
I am a consummate insider. I grew up in the company that Bill and Steve built. Everything that I’ve learned, everything about me has been shaped by the company I worked for — which is Microsoft — for now 25 years. And obviously, something that wouldn’t have happened but for one of the greatest partnerships in business history, which is the partnership of Bill and Steve. I distinctly remember that day and leading up to that day, because it was not really long before that day I even knew that I was going to be CEO. The thing that I was seeking the most, and in particular based on all of the people around me, is asking the existential question and being able to answer it for myself. Which is: Why do we as a company exist? You could say, “What a silly way to start,” but I do believe that. I do believe companies exist for a reason. There needs to be a sense of purpose. If there’s going to be long-term success, you can’t be bound by one brand, one product, one technology wave, it’s got to go beyond that because anything that you started with is not going to last forever. What is that core sense of purpose that can really help drive? Then of course, what’s the culture that will then help you reinforce that sense of purpose with every changing technology wave? Those were the things that, now I see it even three and a half years later — in fact, this entire book came about not as some kind of, “we reached on any destination,” or anything. It’s reflections of a sitting CEO going through that process, that hard process of transformation, which by the way I posit is a continuous process. You’ll never ever reach your destination. How do you keep hitting refresh and being smart about it? I was pretty naïve even three and a half years ago about all of what I at least now know a bit of. All I know is, I know we need to learn a lot more. There needs to be a sense of purpose. If there’s going to be long-term success, you can’t be bound by one brand, one product, one technology wave, which got to go beyond that because anything that you started with is not going to last forever.
Looking at this, it strikes me that Bill and Paul — and then Bill and Steve — had each other. There were two partnerships that resulted in this company, really. You don’t have a singular partner. You have what you call in the book a legion of superheroes, the SLT (senior leadership team) as the Microsoft insiders would call it. How has that changed your leadership of the company, the way the company is run and, ultimately, the culture of Microsoft?
In fact, Steve was the one who switched me on to this even. Which is, he had once reflected when he was CEO about how even in his tenure and his and Bill’s tenure — as you rightfully said, it was Paul and Bill and then Bill and Steve that built the company — many management teams came and went but they were constant. They could provide that continuity in their own way. And they realized that when the next CEO is going to be in place, the way that CEO will need to operate is going to be very different. And also the business. Especially when I talking to Paul recently is when it struck me: How different the company is than the company that Paul worked at in terms of its scope, its size, its complexity, its operation. The thing that Steve was, in fact, trying to even do in his own tenure at Microsoft was to build more of a leadership team. For me, of course, it’s an absolute necessity. There is no way I could operate with the context and the depth — I mean, Steve could do pretty much anybody’s job better than anybody. He had such immense intellectual horsepower. I clearly don’t. The thing that I wanted to make sure is [to] bring the team and also have that ownership. “This is our company.” This is not just for the SLT. I want people inside the company to feel it’s their company so that they can use it as a platform to realize their own mission and their own personal philosophy. That’s what I believe applies to the leadership team, as well.
You said earlier that you are the consummate insider, and you’ve said in the past that that gave you the credibility — internally — to make change. You were not an outside person coming in to make change. Now, after three and a half years, the stock price has doubled. I recognize you don’t have direct control over the stock price, but that is some external credibility that you’ve gained through your leadership of this company. What do you plan to do with that external credibility? Could you take even bigger bets now on Microsoft’s future given that kind of rope that you’ve got on Wall Street?
I think you’re absolutely right. Tech businesses, in particular, are about that constant need to renew themselves by taking big bets. We’ve got this attribute that things all look like failures until they’re not. They’re pretty binary transitions because of these network effects in technology. You’ve got to be able to see things that are changing long before they’re conventional wisdom, take bets and then go after them in a strong way. But at the same time, the market is going to hold you accountable. They want to pass judgment on your judgment. In some sense, it’s rear-view mirror because they’re trying to make sure that you’re able to walk the walk of producing results, and then they will give you permission. You’ve got to get — as I described it, to use a cricketing metaphor — a batting average that is good.
Think about it this way. Here we are 43 years after inception, fighting it out with a whole set of new characters. Not the ones that we competed with 43 years ago, let alone 10 years ago. That, I think, shows that we have that capability — the capability to renew ourselves. We’ll hit some, we’ll miss some, but we’ll keep at it.
I’m very excited about what we’re doing in mixed reality, what we’re doing in AI, what are we going to do even in some really longer-lead things like quantum. By the way, all these efforts didn’t get started three and a half years ago. It’s really Bill who started MSR. It’s Steve how started our cloud push. These are the folks who saw it long before it was conventional wisdom that these are the things that can be successful, and that I think is key. You’re right — as an insider, I’ve been through that journey. But at the same time, I was also very grounded on the things that needed changing.
Along those lines, one of the things that struck me about the book — and it’s fun to read a book like this as a reporter who’s been covering the company, because you get the inside information on some of the things you’ve been doing that we’ve been reporting on and you find out what really happens. Apart from the rose petals anecdote, which folks will have to find out about, one of my favorite anecdotes in the book gets directly to this, and that is how you and Microsoft CFO Amy Hood decided to re-orient Wall Street. You said, “We’re not going to focus as much on where we are in smartphones. We’re going to set a target: $20 billion in cloud revenue.” It was an interesting mind exercise that you went through, to try and get Wall Street to look elsewhere. Is that a good approach? Would you give that advice to other CEOs in the audience, to set goals like that and make them externally? Because it’s risky. Tech businesses, in particular, are about that constant need to renew themselves by taking big bets. We’ve got this attribute that things all look like failures until they’re not.
It’s not about looking elsewhere, but one of the key things that we felt that we needed to make clear — both quite frankly internally and externally— is, what’s the trend that we are really capitalizing on? And how are we winning in that space? That, I think, is going to be very important for the confidence, internally and externally. The reality was most people, even today, view our cloud sometimes narrowly by talking about it as, “Hey, here is your competition with AWS.” That’s one space. But If you look at even our cloud, we have SaaS applications with Office 365. We have business applications with Dynamics 365. We have Azure. we are a believer in distributed infrastructures, so it’s not just Azure. Azure has an edge with Azure Stack. We wanted to make sure that it is clear, both internally and externally, that we will have a big business here. But most importantly, we will innovate. We’ll serve our customers. So, you’re right, you have to take that risk and it’s our ability to walk that walk, quarter after quarter, that’s really helped Wall Street, in some sense, say, “This is a management team, this is a company, that can, in fact, follow through.” And we’ll never be done. I’ll have another quarterly call in a few weeks and I have to show up with Amy and show our progress. That’s how it is. That’s what’s going to give us permission to keep doing the AI work, the quantum work, the mixed reality work. But I think that’s what all companies have to do. You’ve got to be able to perform, but you got to also accrue power for the future. One of the major cultural changes we made even in the company was not to fall in love with, essentially, lagging indicators of success, but really fall in love with leading indicators of success. Which is usage, customer satisfaction, come long before revenue and profit. We needed to make sure we are really tracking that, not just what we deliver per quarter.
I want to talk about the future of technology, and that portion of the conversation actually starts in an unexpected place, here with your son, Zain. He has cerebral palsy and you write in detail, very candidly, about your early struggles with this. It has totally changed your outlook on the world, on technology, on your life. Walk us through that, if you would.
Zain was born when I was 29 years old. His birth, perhaps more than anything else, has shaped a lot of who I am. That was probably one of the harder parts of writing even in the book, to go back and reflect on it in more concrete terms, as to what he has taught me. As a 29-year-old, with both my wife and me — we’re the only children of our parents. So when Zain was about to be born, it was all exciting in the house and we were looking forward to him and the nursery being ready and whether Anu would get back to her work, or how quickly can she get back to her work as an architect. Which she just started. But of course, that night when he was born, everything changed. He was born, because of in utero asphyxiation, with severe brain damage which has led subsequently to cerebral palsy. Quite frankly, Todd, I struggled with it. I struggled for perhaps multiple years, because the well laid out plans of mine — as a mid-level or even an entry-level engineer at Microsoft — were all out of the window. I needed to recalibrate. I felt, for a long time, “why has this happened to us, and me?” It’s only by watching my wife who even right after recovering from her C-section was driving Zain up and down the bridges here to get him to therapies and give him the best shot. That’s what, perhaps, really got me out of my stupor and said, “OK, what do I as a father have to do?” Over the years, we’ve been blessed in this community, whether it’s Seattle Children’s Hospital, it’s the physical therapist, the occupational therapist, the speech therapist — the community that we have now around us and the connections, and the role of technology. Zain has gone through many hardships of medical surgeries and what have you. There was even one incident — I remember one day I was sitting, waiting for him to come out of his surgery room, and then all of the equipment around me — a lot of that was Windows. I was saying, “Hey, it’d all better work.” And it just gave me the feeling and understanding of the responsibility of a platform company, a technology company. Because that’s one of the things that’s very unique about Microsoft, we’re in every power grid. We’re in every hospital. We’re in every critical part of our society and our economy. And we’ve got to take that responsibility very, very seriously.
How has it shaped your views on the accessibility of technology and making sure that everyone can access the power of innovation?
My personal life, of course, has been a great influence on how I think about the importance of accessibility. But one of the things that I am seeing inside of Microsoft is universal design and accessibility as a real driver of true innovation. I’ll give you a couple of things. One of the apps that we launched recently, which uses the cutting edge AI in our cloud-run computer vision — it gives anybody with visual impairment the capability to see. In fact, Angela Mills, who is a co-worker of mine whom I had worked with very early on in this part of my Microsoft career, was telling me this story of how she now can go into our cafeteria in Microsoft, order with confidence because she can see the food, read the ingredients, read the menu. She can walk into conference rooms. We have brail readers and what have you, but the issue is she wants to walk into the conference room knowing that that’s the right one, not barge into something that’s not the one that she needs. She can do that now, with confidence. She is able to fully participate. She’s empowered because of AI and will fully participate.
This is an app called Seeing AI. It’s for iOS and Android, you can hold it up to the world. It identifies people, it’ll tell you the approximate age of somebody. It’s like a petri dish of AI technologies. It’s really cool.
It’s really cool. In fact, we’re going to try and even make it extensible. There is already some extensibility, like it’ll recognize currency. It’s awesome. It gives people more empowerment who need it. Similarly, what we did with Learning Tools. This is again a very passionate group inside of Microsoft who said, we have some amazing technology around reading which now mixed with AI can change the outcomes for kids with dyslexia. Now in Word and OneNote, you have Learning Tools so that kids or anyone with dyslexia can start reading faster, better, comprehend text. Former NFL player and ALS advocate Steve Gleason came to one of our hackathons. Again, a group of passionate people said, “what can we do for an ALS patient who has gaze, eye gaze but all of the other muscles can’t be moved — can they communicate?” We now have in Windows 10 — in fact, in the Fall Creators Update — eye gaze as an input mechanism. I feel one of the things that’s being unlocked is this fundamental recognition that it’s not just about accessibility as AT technology. In fact, we historically even at Microsoft would think of it as, “Oh wow! This is something that you do as assistive technology.”
Kind of a niche.
As a niche, as something that you do on top of having built the product. But the reality is: The one thing that is true for all of us is, at some point in our life, we all will need some help with some sense of ours. That’s going to be really the universal truth. So we’d better design products so that it can help everybody. That’s what I think we’re trying to invoke and the beauty of it is it’s not some top-down thing, quite frankly. If you look at our hackathons. … We have products teams who are passionate. We have a long distance to cover. What Cortana can mean for accessibility, what mixed reality can mean for accessibility, these are exciting frontiers. I think it’s going to make us a better AI company, a better devices company, a better everything company by focusing in this area.
Let’s talk about the future. You identify three trends in the book — mixed reality, quantum computing and artificial intelligence — that are, in your view, going to drive the future. Paint for us, if you will, a picture of that future. What is the world going to be like if these three things come to fruition for our grandkids or perhaps even our grandkids’ grandkids? What are you thinking about now as you’re laying the foundation for that future?
One of the most hazardous things to do is speculate in technology about the future. How they manifest in specific terms, I think, will be very path-dependent. It’ll be dependent on where we start. Here’s how I think about it. Take mixed reality. We’ve been on this journey where we’ve been creating these mirror worlds which is, we’ve been trying to create metaphors that we find in the physical space in a digital world. Desktop being a great example of it. But for the first time, we now have the ability to take what you see and just superimpose, in your field of view, the digital artifact. In other words, the analog and digital medium can merge. You can have a complete immersive experience, that’s what people call virtual reality; or people can, in fact, see the two together, and that’s what people call augmented reality.
Our view is that that’s a dial that you get to set. We’re in the early stages of the devices, but ultimately our dream is that people will have devices which will be like your glasses that you will wear that you can set dials and all computing experiences will be mediated by this new medium. Now, in order to do that, you really need AI. One of the things that even in the Hololens today is a chip called HPU, or the holographic processing unit. It’s one of the first neural processing units because what it does it understands, spatially, everything that is happening and then is able to this lock of a digital object into real space. That means it solves the computer vision challenge. I think AI is going to be very much part of even bringing forth these new UI metaphors. In fact, I look at what we’re doing with mixed reality as a gaze-first, gesture-first and voice-first interface. You’re not really trying to do keyboard and mouse or touch, but it’s really all about gaze and speech and computer vision. That’s the real AI capability that we want to build. In AI, I feel one of the challenges we have — we talked about all of the things around Seeing AI or Learning Tools, but even take Cortana. One of the things that I’m most excited about is AI that helps me with my more scarce commodity, which is time. Every day I send lots of emails, get lots of emails. I make, in fact, commitments in email which I forget. But Cortana saves me every day because it tells me, “Oh, you sent mail to Todd saying you’ll follow-up on Thursday” and Thursday comes and it’ll wake up and tell me, “Hey, have you followed up with Todd?” AI that helps me focus, get more out of my time, that’s what we’re trying to do with something like Cortana. I think that that’s going to be the real currency of our time. I always say, AI can help you stay distracted by engaging a lot more in things that take away time. The more real purpose we need to solve for is: How does AI give you back more time for the things that matter the most to you? If you say, “Well, this is amazing. We’re going to have this mixed reality future. We’re going to have all this AI.” What’s the one thing that we need more of? It’s computing. In some sense, in spite of all the progress we have made, what is still not solved for — let’s talk about all the computational problems that are not solved. We can’t yet model that natural enzyme in food production. We can’t model the catalyst that can absorb, say, the carbon in the air or build a superconducting material for lossless power transmission. Those are all computational problems. If you try to solve it using a classical computer, they’ll take all the time from the beginning of time to now. Obviously, we don’t have that time. That’s where I think these advances in quantum computing are going to be super important. I think of these three things — they’re not all the same, they’re not going to be linearly juxtaposed with each other — but I do believe that these three changes are going to be profound in their impact in our lives and in our work.
All three of these areas are highly competitive. Microsoft is far from the only company pursuing them. You got two competitors in particular in Google and Apple that have an advantage in that they have their own large base of first-party smartphone hardware users. How much of a disadvantage is it for Microsoft that you don’t have that on the smartphone now? How will you overcome it?
It’s a great question. It’s absolutely right. There are 300 million PC sold and there’s a billion smartphones sold. Therein lies, I guess, the math around the high-volume device. I take inspiration, quite frankly, from our own history and how others approached it. There was a time when the only hub for all things was the PC. Until it was not. Today, of course, the conventional wisdom is, “That’s it. This is the last device that you will ever need and want and have, and if you don’t participate in it this second, there is no way.” Except, the two companies you mentioned were born after — or the rebirth at least of Apple came not because of their PC share going up; it was mostly because of what they did with the iPod and the iPhone later. So the question really is for us: How do we meet the reality of today and then invent our own future? The way I think of that is: First, let’s make sure our software and applications are used on iOS and Android. We want to be first class — after all, most people don’t remember this, but Office was there on the Mac before Windows was even a platform. This is not new to us. We want to go and make sure that whether it’s LinkedIn, whether it’s Skype, whether it is Office, whether it’s Outlook — are used every day. Or our games, Minecraft. We want to make sure, whether it’s gaming or productivity and communications, we do our best work on iOS and Android. We also want to look at these changes in form function. What is a mobile device today? How is that doing to be shaped? Whether it’s what we did with Surface — after all, as a category with 2-in-1, nobody that there will be such a category. We invented it, we popularized it to the point that now we have good competition. That means we got to keep at it. What’s the next form function change? Also, what are these new big changes like mixed reality, which in fact put everything up in the air? If you can start seeing your computing in front of you, you’re probably are not going to keep reaching out to your phone as the hub for everything. I feel we’ve got to do our best work and take some bets. Some we will hit, some we won’t, but we’re very, very committed to both making sure that our cloud services are available as great applications on every mobile endpoint and we invent the next set of devices, the next set of form factors with the next set of natural interfaces.
Have you given up on smartphone hardware?
We absolutely do not have the share to have a smartphone hardware that’s a real consumer choice. That’s I think the reality of it. There’s a lot of press this week suddenly around this. But the reality is that we cannot compete as a third ecosystem, with no share position, and attract developers. So the thing that we’re doing is to make sure that the software is available so that we can service the enterprise customers who really don’t care about a lot of the things that a broad consumer will care about.
It’s one operating system for us. It’s not like we have a phone operating system that is separate from the Xbox operating system, that’s separate from the Windows operating system. It’s one platform. That’s where we are and what we’re now all-in on is to say, “OK, What are we going to do with Surface? How are we going to push the boundaries of what is a PC, even?” And all-in on mixed reality, all-in on gaming, all-in on all of our applications on IOS and Android. That’s how we’re going to go at it.
You just asked a good question: What are you going to do on Surface?
I’ll tell you, we do have a lot of exciting things that are happening in Surface.
Is there any kind of form factor that you’re most interested in that you have not yet entered?
I’m definitely not going to talk to you about it on the GeekWire stage before I have the device!
Just you and me and a few of our friends here.
One of the things that  again, Steve was the one who really taught us this— was: You’ve got to build the capability. If you think about even the last five years or seven years, the capability we now have. Of being able to build devices. It’s not about the device, it’s the software plus the device. It’s not even just the device as a system. … The fact that we now have that capability to do end to end — as I like to call it, from silicon to cloud — is what now we’ve got to use to innovate new categories. Clearly, category creation is going to be a big part of what we have to do.
Yesterday, we had two of Amazon’s top executives — Tony Reid, the head of Echo and Alexa, and Jeff Wilke, the CEO of Amazon’s consumer business. You have a front row seat for a very interesting story in technology, even apart from Microsoft right here in the Seattle region. You’ve been partnering with Amazon, between Cortana and Alexa. What are your observations about Amazon and the growth that they’ve seen?
Amazon’s a very impressive company. What Jeff and his team have done is something that, I think, I’ve long admired. I think there’s a lot that we can learn. In fact, the good news is between Microsoft and Amazon, we have a lot of cross-pollination of talent. It’s helpful for this region, by the way, which I think was something that Silicon Valley always had. When I look at what we’re trying to do with Alexa and Echo, in particular, it’s very straightforward: I want to make sure that at any point in time, the value that we can deliver to customers is not artificially held back because the way to reach them is through someone else’s platform. I felt like one thing I’ve learned at Microsoft is that. Most people don’t think of it that way, but that’s the lesson I learned from what we did with Office on the Macintosh to start with. Cortana is going to be the assistant that helps me with my time, my productivity. That’s going to be the unique skill. There’s no reason why I shouldn’t have that capability if I’m a user of Echo and Alexa. That’s the partnership we have. We’re going to see. These are all about user habits. I’m not a believer in that there’s going to be this one agent. I think each agent is going to have different characteristics, and you should be able to scaffold these agents together. Some of them, after a while of habitual use, will even become automatic. That’s what at least both Jeff and I talked about and that’s what we would hope to see.
Will we ever see a Microsoft HQ2, another headquarters somewhere else in North America?
We are very, very happy where we are. In fact, one of the things we’re also committed to is what I would say is our development that’s happening in many parts of the world, and many parts of the United States. We have a thriving Silicon Valley office, we just broke ground for a new office there. We have a big office in New York now, we have offices in Boston in Cambridge. Obviously in China and in India. I’m at least in no hurry to talk about any HQ2s. I’m happy with where we are in Redmond.
The Amazon example is a good one because it’s emblematic of the approach you’ve changed — and you write about this in detail in that one chapter of the book — with those industry partnerships. Frenemies. You’re competing on some fronts and you’re cooperating on others. What’s the most awkward moments you’ve had? Has it been Salesforce when they disputed your LinkedIn acquisition? And how have you navigated those?
I think the fundamental approach I always take is: How can we look at things so that they are non-zero-sum? And recognizing where there is overlap and there is going to be zero-sum competitions. … We are lucky, as a company and as a community in tech, to be in tech. It’s shaping every walk of life, every part of our economy. I think it’ll be really, in some sense, shortsighted to view things inside of our own industry as all zero-sum. That’s at least an attitude that I come out with, and that’s what shapes a lot of our partnerships. At the same time, we’re going to compete. We compete with Salesforce in business applications head-on. In fact, we are the disruptor in that space. I’m so excited about what we’re doing with Dynamics in Dynamics 365. It completely changes the business model, the technology, and everything. But at the same time, Salesforce and Office 365, for the users of those two clouds, is great integration. This is something we did in that past, as well, whether it was with Oracle or with SAP. So I want to just bring that maturity. I feel sometimes what is needed is customer obsession, let’s view things through how they view us versus just our own strategery all the time. And then compete.
I can’t believe we haven’t talked about the largest acquisition in Microsoft’s history, which closed less than a year ago: LinkedIn. In our pre-event survey, one of the biggest concerns among attendees was privacy. Data is one of the biggest assets that you acquired through LinkedIn. How can you capitalize most on that data while still being respectful of current and future privacy concerns?
I think the entire LinkedIn proposition, franchise, as you said, is built around trust. Trust about the data of LinkedIn and the value LinkedIn provides to the users. That’s of the paramount importance. That’s why, even when there were some concerns about what we would do with it, it’s very clear that we will only do things that the community of LinkedIn gives us permission to do and adds value to them. That’s not our data. It’s the data of the 500 million people who use LinkedIn, who are members of LinkedIn. That’s one of the things that I reinforce at Microsoft: We don’t own data. It’s either the user data or it’s the organizational data. We are essentially entrusted to make it secure, make it private, and make sure that we are there in control and we are very transparent about all of it. Those principles is what guides everything that we do, whether it’s in Office365 or whether it’s on LinkedIn. That’s one of the things that I reinforce at Microsoft: We don’t own data. It’s either the user data or it’s the organizational data. We are essentially entrusted to make it secure, make it private, and make sure that we are there in control and we are very transparent about all of it. Those principles is what guides everything that we do, whether it’s in Office365 or whether it’s on LinkedIn. If there is value in integration, you have to ask for permission and get that permission. I think that’s where we’re going. Things like GDPR are essentially going to legislate that. Therefore, that’s the world we should build for.
Should we expect an acceleration of integration between the companies? We’ve started to see a little bit of it, between LinkedIn and Microsoft, in terms of the products.
Yeah, in fact, I feel very, very good. One of my top goals was the re-acceleration of LinkedIn. We’ll talk more about this at the next quarterly earnings. On top of that, the product integrations we announced between Office365 and LinkedIn, between Dynamics365 and LinkedIn — these are there today and our customers benefit from it. In fact, it’s one of those places where we’ve executed super well — on a large acquisition, keeping their ethos, their culture, their value proposition, accelerate that core asset and then add these product integrations. Not exclusively. There could be others who can also do these product integrations. That’s been our strategy.
Before we close here, I want to talk about a couple of your personal community initiatives. You are on the board of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. Fred Hutch director Dr. Gary Gilliland was here yesterday. And also, of course, you are in the board of Starbucks. Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson was here yesterday. Share with us what you’re hoping to accomplish through those roles.
It’s a real privilege to be associated with these iconic organizations in the community. With Starbucks, Kevin was at Microsoft. I worked for Kevin when he was at Microsoft. I’ve known him, and I’ve gotten to know former Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz. I’m very, very excited about what Starbucks is doing. Ultimately, it’s about that experience that they are trying to create in using of digital technology. And to be on the board to learn and to contribute, I think that’s fantastic. What Gary and team are doing at Fred Hutch is just truly inspiring to me. To have even that goal of solving cancer by the turn of the next decade, it’s audacious goal. It’s one of these places where — again, I had not understood it — which is one of the great limiters to even progress in cancer is: How can you take the research that is happening and make it comprehensible in a way so that new hypotheses can be created by the researchers at Fred Hutch and other places? Technology is going to play a huge role. For me, I’m learning so much. Gary is an amazing leader in terms of the organization. He’s got a great team. It’s fantastic to be associated with both of these organizations.
As you look to the future, I know that you’re a big fan of poetry. Is there a line or a phrase of poetry that most summarizes your view of the future, personally, and of Microsoft and of the technology industry?
It’s fascinating — as we were getting ready to disclose, at out Ignite Conference a few weeks back, some of our quantum efforts, I had a chance to spend a lot of time with Michael Friedman, who’s a Field’s Medal-winning mathematician, who is part of our quantum effort. He was schooling me on a lot of the quantum technology. Being a mathematician, he asked me this question. He said, “Do you know your square roots?” I said, “What?” I think I did. I was not a great student, but I think I know square roots. He said, “Do you know square roots of imaginary numbers?” I didn’t know where he was going, but it turns out that the square roots of imaginary numbers have a lot to do with quantum computers. But there was this line of poetry I’ve read a couple of years ago by a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet called Vijay Seshadri. It’s called Imaginary Number. And it goes something like this: “The soul, like the square root of minus 1, is an impossibility that has its uses.” And I think it just captures I think a lot — that force that’s within that seeks out the unimaginable, that gets us up to solve the impossible, and so there is poetry behind square roots of imaginary numbers.
Welcome back.  I hope you had a fantastic day so far.  Now this morning and through the general sessions, you’ve heard a lot about technology that’s in market today or coming soon.  Well, now we shift to talk about the next horizon of innovation and transformation. Now it’s these areas that will collectively shape our future in this industry.  So as you hear from Satya, first is to enjoy it, you’re going to hear about and see some amazing things.  But also encourage you to think about how you’re going to incorporate these technologies, these ideas and possibilities into your IT strategies today so you’ll have a map for how you can take advantage of them in the future.So without further ado, please welcome Satya Nadella.
Thank you. Good afternoon.  It’s fantastic to be back here this afternoon at the Ignite keynote.  We’re going to have some fun this afternoon.  We’re going to see some real magical technologies.  And I’m going to talk about in particular how we have set ourselves a goal of democratizing AI.  The central thesis and goal we have with AI starts with our mission, to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We are not pursuing AI to beat humans at games.  We are pursuing AI so that we can empower every person and every institution that people build with tools of AI, so that they can go on to solve the most pressing problems of our society and our economy.  That’s the pursuit. And to build perspective on this, let’s go back to what we’ve been talking about, mobile-first, cloud-first.  In fact, this morning Scott talked about how we are living in this world, how customers are achieving digital transformation where it’s about the mobility of the human experience across all of the computing in our lives.  That’s what the cloud enables.  Even the cloud is not a single destination but a distributed fabric.  That’s what’s driving all of these ambitions that we have in terms of technology. But what is at the intersection of our three ambitions is AI.  The ability to reason over large amounts of data and convert that into intelligence.  That intelligence shows up as handwriting recognition on Windows 10, or the Windows Hello feature, the ability to face recognize you, or even magical new devices like the holographic computer, where you have the ability to digitally reconstruct and recognize everything that you see and then to superimpose objects in that world.  How we infuse every application, Cortana, Office 365, Dynamics 365 with intelligence.  And the building blocks that constitute intelligence that are available as developer services in Azure.  That’s what we’re doing.  That’s the approach we are taking.
But to truly understand and perhaps build even more of a perspective, let’s step way back to perhaps what is the first machine that democratized access to information, the printing press.  In 1450 or so when the printing press came out, the Guttenberg Bible got published, removable type became prevalent.  Before that we had something like 30,000 books in the world.  And 50 years after the printing press we had 12 million books.  It changed how humans both created information and used information.  You can, in fact, trace back everything in the modern era to our ability to create and diffuse information and learn. The next inflection point perhaps in this information explosion was 1989 and the birth of the World Wide Web.  And it’s pretty stunning to see the amount of data, the amount of information that we are generating.  I was just reading this weekend a report from the IDC which says in 2015 we generated close to 10 zettabytes of data.  What’s fascinating to me is what that report projects we will generate in 2025.  We will generate something like 180 zettabytes.  I mean we’re getting to a point where we don’t even know what to name things.  We’re getting to a point where that march from peta to exa to zetta, what comes next, we don’t even know.
So in all of this information explosion what has remained scarce is something that I’ve talked about in the past: It’s human attention and time.  Our ability to make sense of all of this information.  So that’s really what we all need to turn our attention to.  We’ve used technology very successfully to democratize both creation of information and the distribution and access of information.  And now we need to turn to technology to democratize creation and access to intelligence.  That’s the approach that Microsoft is taking with our AI efforts. We have four core pillars to what we’re going to do.  It’s agents, applications, services, and infrastructure.  When we talk about agents, in our case Cortana, I think of it as the third run time.  What do I mean by the third run time.  Just like the PC operating system or the mobile phone operating system, or the web and the browser, it’s the new organizing layer.  It’s what helps mediate the human computer interaction, your ability to get to applications and information. This new category of the personal digital assistant is a run time, a new interface.  It can take text input, it can take speech input, it knows you deeply.  It knows your context, your family, your work.  It knows the world.  It is unbounded.  In other words, it’s about you, it’s not about any one device.  It goes wherever you go.  It’s available on any phone, iOS, Android, Windows, doesn’t matter.  It is available across all of the applications that you will use in your life. So we are well on our way here with Cortana.  In fact, we have 133 million active users each month using Cortana and they have across 116 countries, and they’ve already asked 12 billion questions.  And that is what’s driving even the skills ecosystem of Cortana, the fact that we have these SDKs that allow developers to be able to infuse Cortana with more intelligence is what makes Cortana even more relevant every day for our everyday use.
And so the first demo we want to show you is where we are with Cortana and the Cortana skills so that you can get more out of every moment of your life.  To do that, welcome Laura on stage from the Cortana team.
Thank you, Laura. So now let’s switch to talk about applications.  And how the same approach of infusing intelligence into Cortana as that personal assistant we can take that approach to every application.  In fact, I want to start with SwiftKey.  SwiftKey is one of the more popular keyboard apps on Android and iOS, a third-party keyboard app.  They have over 300 million users of it today.  In fact, it’s already taken over a trillion-plus keystrokes.  It’s saved, in fact, people something like 100,000 years of keyboard entry time.  And the technique we have used to do all of that was this n-gram-based approach, where we were able to predict the next word based on the previous n words. Just last week we made a giant leap.  We’ve switched to deploying a neural network.  Think about this.  That means every one of us will have a neural net that learns on how we type.  So that means it goes beyond the previous three words, or four words that we entered to predict, it goes beyond that to the semantic meaning of what we are trying to communicate, across all the devices.  So it’s no longer that a keyboard is attached to a device.  The keyboard is attached to you and has a neural network that’s constantly learning and helping you get those magical typing skills that we always wanted.
And another application is MileIQ.  MileIQ is fascinating in the sense that it’s a context-aware location-aware intelligent app.  There are essentially    in fact, the No. 1 finance category app both on iOS and Android today.  There are over 60 million Americans who are road warriors, who have to keep track of their mileage, especially for work so that they can get the tax refund from the IRS.  And, in fact, this MileIQ application has returned already $1.2 billion to the users of MileIQ.
And the way it goes about that is by really, again, taking all of the signal, in this case your driving and location information, but converting it into intelligent action.  That approach is what we now want to take into our very mainstream products, Office 365.  In fact, for me when we talk about Office 365 it’s not just simply that we’re moving to the cloud and this is a new way to deliver some of the same technology as a service.  In fact, the most profound shift is in the fact that the data underneath the applications of Office 365 is exposed in a graph structure and in a trusted, privacy preserving way we can reason over that data and create intelligence.  That’s what’s really this profound shift in Office 365. And you see this in many, many ways.  You see it in this focused inbox.  I mean think about e-mail triage, e-mail triage on your phone or on your PC.  If you want to talk about that scarcity we have of human attention and time, the ability to deploy a custom neural net model that, again, understands your inbox, it’s not a generic model.  It understands the type of mail, the people that you’re corresponding with, the content, the semantic content of your inbox, and to be able to focus your attention on things that matter the most. Skype Translate is something, again, that’s fairly magical.  And there have been three different strands of research that came together to make translation happen.  There was speech recognition, there was speech synthesis, there was machine translation.  And then Skype Data.  So you take those three technologies, apply deep reinforcement learning and neural net, and the Skype Data and magic happens.  We already have eight languages.  We see in these emerging phenomena like transfer learning, when you teach it one language it learns the other, and really solves that human language barrier. Even inside of Word or Outlook, when you’re writing a document, we now don’t have simple controller-based spell correction, we have complete computational linguistic understanding of what you’re building or what you’re writing.  And so that means we can, of course, correct spelling.  In fact, I think that I would be unemployable but for the red squiggly. And now I even have the capability to be a better writer in terms of style and grammar and understanding of what it is that I want to write about and communicate. Some of the learning tools that we’ve built into Word and OneNote to even solve for dyslexia, to help students with dyslexia improve their reading rate.  Another new application of it that we just launched this week is TAP; it understands the content you’re writing.  And, just imagine, within that context to bring all the other content that was created in your organization just a tap away. And lastly, MyAnalytics, because again going back to that notion of scarce time, just like the fitness tracker gives me all this information about all that I need to do to keep my calorie intake and outtake on balance, what if I had that same feedback loop informing me on terms of time I’m spending, who am I spending with on topics that I should spend it on.  That’s what MyAnalytics is about. So Office 365 to me, beyond what is the traditional applications and workloads, it’s about infusing this next layer of intelligence.  And we’re not stopping there.  In fact, we’re expanding that to Dynamics 365.  Take something like sales, in any business application you always explicitly model the world.  When it comes to sales, you have modeled salespeople, their accounts, customers, leads, prospects, opportunity pipeline, it’s all modeled. There’s lots of data that’s captured.  But there’s one real problem, which is most of the sales activity happens outside a CRM system. And so the goal of intelligence is to be able to reason about your sales data model, not inside just your CRM system, but outside.  So we are building the relationship assistant that’s going to ship in November as part of Dynamics CRM to truly transform our CRM application from the inside out.  So when you login to a CRM system what you’re going to see are these cards, these cards that allow you to take action inside the system based on activity that is happening outside.
So for example, it’ll know because of its ability to crawl the web about changes that are happening with your customers.  Changes that are happening on LinkedIn on one of your prospects job title.  And so now you can go change the information in context of things that are happening on the outside.  So the web graph informs your CRM actions. Similarly the Microsoft Graph, say you get an e-mail from one of your customers, instead of you having to triage, copy/paste, re-enter into a CRM system, what if when you login to a CRM system you got to triage, in fact, your email actions.  A new RFQ request comes in, a new lead comes in, a new opportunity, somebody — in fact, one of your colleagues in the sales account team sends you a mail and that gets flagged as an opportunity risk item.  And lastly, of course, we’ll apply the intelligence to the CRM data model itself so that you can get alerts around when is it that an opportunity is going to close or monitor account activity. So this is a complete revamp of how one even goes about thinking about a CRM sales module. A similar approach is what we’re taking with customer service.  Again, traditionally what we have one is to build, again, a model of what a customer service agent does, how do they open a case, how do they escalate a case, how do they keep track of all of the workflows that happen within the customer service department. Really customer service starts with the customer contact.  So at Microsoft we, today, have at support.Microsoft.com a virtual assistant.  This is live in U.S. English today, and we’re going to expand this to all countries.  So customers come in and interact with the agent.  They ask it questions, this virtual agent answers those questions.  But, of course, it also runs out of steam and needs to escalate to a real customer service from time to time. And that’s when the real magic starts.  If you go behind the scenes, this is the interface that our customer service reps are using today.  What you have on the left-hand side is the conversational canvas where the customer service rep is interacting with the customers, solving their problems.  But the bot or the assistant is on the right-hand side.  It is, in fact, helping the customer service rep get better. So this virtual assistant through a mechanism called reinforcement learning is not only helping the customer service rep get better, it, itself, is getting better.  So this phenomena of applying AI to customer service will get your customer service outcomes to be more efficient, your customer satisfaction to improve. These are true, simple, but profound examples of how AI in sales, in support, are going to transform Dynamics 365. So I want to then move to service.  The capability that you see underneath Office 365, Dynamics 365, SwiftKey, all of that is what we want to expose as services, building blocks so that you can build the same kind of intelligent applications. The Cortana Intelligence Suite today already is transformative.  Ecolab is using it for water management; Schneider Electric is using it for energy distribution in Nigeria.  LV Prasad Eye Institute is using it to bring affordable eye care in India.  Rolls-Royce is using it for fuel efficiency.  This notion of using machine learning on large amounts of data is already having that transformative effect across every industry, across every country. And now we’re adding new capabilities to the Cortana Intelligence Suite.  The first is the Bot Framework.  Bots are like applications, just like how you build a website or a mobile app, every business for every business process is going to build a bot interface, because it’s a convenient way for users to interact with your information, your data, your process. But in order to build a bot, you need to have these building block services that have conversational understanding, know how to parse natural language, how to have a dialogue.  So that’s what we’ve now encapsulated in this Bot Framework so that you can build a bot that is available on Skype, it’s available online, it’s available on Facebook. So, again, we’re taking an approach where any bot you build is not captive to any one conversational canvas.  It is available everywhere.  And since Build, which is when we launched it for the first time, we have had 45,000 developers building these bots, Hipmunk in travel, Star Trek, StubHub, Getty Images, so many, many developers taking advantage of the bot framework already. So we now are partnering, which is a fun bot, with NFL.  It turns out NFL, as you can imagine, has lots of data.  And one of the applications that they create is for fantasy football.  And it’s the most data-driven application at least I’ve come across.  And so we started experimenting, and this is something that we are in the early stages of building and I hope that by the next season we’ll have this bot, which will allow each one of us to really engage in a very different way with what all of us, at least in the United States, are obsessed with, which is fantasy football. And so what I thought is to really showcase this I’ll invite up on stage someone who knows a thing or two about football, Deion Sanders.  Please help me welcome Deion on stage.
I made it.  Forget the Super Bowl and the World Series, I made it.
Deion, we’re going to go to this station.  I know that you’re the only person who was in the Super Bowl and the World Series.  And have you ever tried a real game of cricket, though?
Cricket, you mean the kind that you fish with?
I’ll teach you that.  That’s the one sport you’ve got learn.  You need to learn it.  So we’re logged in here to your Skype account, and I look at your friends list, wow, one of these days I’ll have those kinds of friends.
No, your friends are doing pretty good.
So this is a bot that we built, or we are in the process of building with NFL, that obviously you know a lot about.  And the idea is how can we change that fantasy football interface and make it more fun and more data-driven.  So what it allows you to do is to really compare player profiles, change your roster, or improve your roster.  So maybe what we should do is look at your roster.  Should we do that?
Yes.
Let’s go, let’s click that.
I like when they talk to you like they know you, welcome back, Deion.
That’s conversational understanding.
I love that.
And so here is your roster.  I mean it’s a pretty   
Pretty good.
Pretty good, I don’t know what 105 points means, is it good?
It’s OK.
So how about we ask for some recommendations.  Let’s see what the bot says.
Wow, Matt Ryan with Drew Brees, they’re playing tonight.  I like Matt Ryan, but I love Drew Brees, because Atlanta’s secondary isn’t good, but when you think about Drew Brees if they’re losing he’s going to get more opportunities to throw, so he may receive more fantasy points.
Do you think the bot is wrong?
It’s all right.
How about let’s compare the players.  Let’s see what the bot knows that we may not.
Now that’s good.
It’s almost saying that Bing predicts the Saints are going to win, and Drew Brees will score more fantasy points.  He’s playing at home and the weather will not be a factor, so you should bench Matt Ryan.
Well, you know, I played for Atlanta and it’s kind of hard for me to pick Drew Brees over Matt Ryan and I played sports right here.  But I like what they’re saying.  That’s a pretty good summary.
All right, let’s do it.  All right, so here is your dream team from this week I guess.  So that is really the beginning of hopefully what can be transformative of even how a Deion Sanders can interact with a bot and manage a fantasy football league.
They had more knowledge than I did, because I didn’t even consider that in a dome the weather would not be a factor.
There you go.  Thank you so much, Deion, for being here.  It is such a pleasure.
Thank you.  I appreciate it.
This next example, perhaps, personifies what is possible now by bringing together the two most-magical technologies of these times — cognitive services and mixed reality. We’re working with Lowe’s, in partnership with Pinterest, to completely reimagine what retailing could look like. A home remodel, which I just went through, is a fascinating process.  You go to the store, you get samples, you go back home, you look at them, you go back to the store, and you kind of repeat that process what feels like an infinite number of times. But what if we could, in fact, use the combination of the social signal from your Pinterest board — because, really, the idea for the remodel starts long before you even visit the store.  It’s in your boards on Pinterest.  What if we can take that signal, mix it with the ability to see the remodel before it’s done at the store?  That’s what we’re working on with Lowe’s. And to really show you this in action, let me invite up on stage Jennifer Stevens from our HoloLens team.  Jennifer? 
Thank you, Satya.  Microsoft and Lowe’s have partnered to deliver an innovative new approach to the home remodel experience, and it’s in pilot in stores today. Remodels are big projects and big investments too.  So Lowe’s wants to ensure they deliver a highly personalized experience for all of their customers. Interestingly, most remodels start before a customer ever walks into the store.  Many of us begin by pinning pictures of our favorite designs on social apps like Pinterest.  These images can be supervaluable because they’re a window into our unique style preferences.  But until now, it’s been hard for a retailer like Lowe’s to extract that data. Let’s see how we can change that with machine learning and the work we’re doing with Pinterest. As you can see here in the Lowe’s in-store app, there’s a couple, Peter and Senja, who are working on a remodel and they’ve shared their Pinterest images with us. Now, this looks like a simple app, but on the back end, there’s a Cortana Intelligence deep neural network that’s been trained on millions of pictures of kitchens.  When I hit “analyze” that DNN is extracting Peter and Senja’s unique style preferences, and it’s been matching to the best fit of what’s in the Lowe’s product catalog. As you can see, I got back a handful of recommendations.  It looks like the strongest match is with the Cornerstone, one of Lowe’s feature designs, with 83 percent confidence. If I wanted to, I could continue to customize.  I’ve got some additional recommendations of fits here.  I think this is a good start for what I know about Peter and Senja.  A great customer experience isn’t just about better style matching.  Swatches, printouts can’t show how that new kitchen will really look in someone’s home. But with HoloLens and the interactive product recommendations from Cortana Intelligence, we can find an immersive, life-sized experience and help make that no-regrets remodel possible. Let me invite Peter and Senja to the stage to design their future kitchen using HoloLens.  Now, as they enter the stage, you’re going to see a camera.  And that’s to bring the holograms to everyone in the audience.
That’s awesome.  I mean, it’s the most harmonious, amicable remodel that you can imagine.  And to think about technology that can change industries like retail, the cognitive services and mixed reality and signals from the web and social really are what’s now possible, and that’s really what I look forward to seeing in the years to come. And I want to end with the last pillar, which is infrastructure.  Now, we’re now talking about infrastructure that allows you to create intelligence.  Scott talked earlier this morning about Azure and how we now have 34 global regions, how it’s the most-trusted cloud with its compliance, and then the intelligence capabilities. But the most fascinating thing for me is how we’re able to support, in Azure, the CPU compute fabric at scale and having the scale of CPUs, but the ability for developers to use any framework for creating AI — Café, Torch or CNTK, which is where we’re innovating in building one of the best-in-class frameworks for creating intelligence. But it’s not just limited to CPUs.  We now have the best-in-class GPU virtual machine support in Azure.  You already see developers like JellyFish using it for computational rendering.  Virginia Tech using it for genome sequencing. But we’re not stopping there.  We are now taking those neural nets, deep neural nets, convolutional neural nets, and asking ourselves, what if we can run them not just on CPUs or GPUs, but on silicon? And that’s what has led us to build out the FPGAs.  We now have FPGA support across every compute node of Azure.  That means we have the ability, through the magic of the fabric that we’ve built, to distribute your machine learning tasks, your deep neural nets to all of the silicon that is available so that you can get that performance, that scale. And to show you this, what I believe is the first AI supercomputer in action, I wanted to invite up on stage Doug Burger from Microsoft Research.  Doug?
Thank you, Satya.  I have to say, I’m really excited to share this with you today. As a company, we’ve been on a journey to develop the world’s most-intelligent cloud. Now, we already have industry-leading capabilities with our Azure GPU offering, which is fantastic for building trained AI models offline. But to support live AI services with very low response times at large scale with great efficiency, better than CPUs, we’ve made a major investment in FPGAs. Now, FPGAs are programmable hardware.  What that means is that you get the efficiency of hardware, but you also get flexibility because you can change their functionality on the fly. And this new architecture that we’ve built effectively embeds an FPGA-based AI supercomputer into our global hyperscale cloud.  We get awesome speed, scale and efficiency.  It will change what’s possible for AI. Now, over the past two years, quietly, we’ve deployed it across our global hyperscale datacenters in 15 countries spanning five continents. So let’s start with a visual demo of what happens when you add this FPGA to one of our cloud servers. We’re using a special type of neural network called a convolutional neural net to recognize the content of a collection of images. On the left of the screen, what you see is how fast we can classify a set of images using a powerful cloud-based server running on CPUs. On the right, you see what happens when we add a single 30-watt, Microsoft-designed FPGA board to the server. This single board turbo charges the server, allowing it to recognize the images significantly faster.  It gives the server a huge boost for AI tasks. Now, let’s try something a little harder using a more-sophisticated neural network to translate languages.  The deep-neural-network-based approach we’re using here is computationally much harder, it requires much more compute, but it’s achieving record-setting accuracy in language translation. So to test the system, let’s see how quickly we can translate a book from one language to another.  Now, I picked a nice, small book for this demo, “War and Peace,” about 1,440 pages. And we’ll go over to the monitor here.  And using 24 high-end CPU cores, we will start translating the book from Russian to English. Now, we’ll throw four boards from our FPGA-based supercomputer at the same problem, which uses a fifth less total power. As you can see, our accelerated cognitive services run blazingly fast, eight times faster, while using less power.  These four boards can translate “War and Peace” in just two and a half seconds. But even more importantly, we can now do accelerated AI on a global scale, at hyperscale. Now, Satya is a big reader with a big personal library.  So we thought about translating his library.  But the thought of sneaking into my CEO’s house, scanning all of his books, and getting out without being caught wasn’t so attractive. So we thought about, what’s a different store of texts that we can translate?  We decided to go to Wikipedia. Now, English is the largest language in Wikipedia.  It has five million articles, about three billion words.  If printed on paper, it would be a stack a quarter of a mile high. So if we threw the same four nodes running around eight trillion operations per second at the problem, as you can see, it would take nearly four hours to grind through that quarter-mile stack. Now, of course, we have this fabric, which is global at hyperscale, so we could easily throw 50 nodes, 50 FPGA boards at the problem, which would take us up to about 100 trillion operations per second, and of course bring the time down further. But to show you the raw power of this hyperscale AI supercomputer that we’ve embedded in our cloud, in our global cloud, I’ll show you what would happen if we decided to throw most of our existing global deployment at it. Let’s go all the way over here and see how fast we could go.  Less than a tenth of a second. We could translate all five billion words into another language in less than a tenth of a second. Now, some of you may have blinked in surprise when you saw that result.  And you may or may not know that it takes a human being about two-tenths of a second to blink.  So we can actually translate those five billion words if we threw our deployment at it in less time than it takes to blink once.  That’s hyperscale acceleration. That crazy speed shows the raw power of what we’ve deployed in our intelligent cloud. OK, so now what does it mean — you may have noticed on the screen that we’re running at over an exa-op, again, if we threw our whole deployment at it. What does it mean to be at exa scale? That means we can run a billion-billion operations per second.  It means we have 10 times the AI capability of the world’s largest existing supercomputer. It allows us to do things on a scale that hasn’t been done before.  We can solve problems with AI that haven’t been solved before, things that weren’t even possible just a few years ago.  OK? We’re already porting some of our cognitive services to run on this fabric. Now, this FPGA-based fabric that we’ve built is very flexible.  OK?  So Azure already announced today that they’re using it to provide their accelerated networking, the fast cloud network, industry-leading cloud network running 25 gigabits per second at 10X reduction in latency. So this fabric that’s been deployed in between our servers and our network can be used to run the world’s most-powerful AI, can be used to run the world’s fastest-cloud network, or both. So it’s providing leadership for cloud networking and potentially for AI. When you do a Bing search, you’re already touching this fabric.  Bing ranking is running on it. While many companies are experimenting with much smaller-scale, bolt-on systems, Microsoft is the first to have its global hyper-scale cloud enhanced with post-CPU technology, in this case FPGAs.  It gives us the most-powerful cloud, the most-flexible cloud, and the most-intelligent cloud.  And we’re committed to using it to support and empower you, our partners and customers, as we move forward into the age of machine intelligence together. Thank you.

